proquest_url,original_ocr,year,manual_transcription,doc_type,png_img
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486505058/,ot JolinKerr lut oii St --At DIansc of Gartly Uiti Ruv ti ult,1817,"Greenock, or a typhus fever, Mr John Kerr, Tobacconist.—At Manse of Gartly, the Rev. James Scott.",article,1.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486505009/,THE SC AN EDINBURGH SATURDAY December 27 TOCpKRESPONUENTS TliR of from Lpnilon 113 to coin nuni -U submit that it bu tlic not to publish lr letter The greater the contempt Mil which Ihinis are il tile,1817,"THE SCOTSMAN EDINBURGH, SATURDAY, December 27 TO CORRESPONDENTS. The pressure of important intelligence from London has compelled us to post-pone inserting many valuable communications.—We submit that it would be the preferable mode not to publish Mr B**'s letter. The greater the contempt with which these things are treated the better.",masthead,2.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486501656/,This -iv is published price One Shilling LETTER TO THE OF EDINBURGH On tlie Propriety of their late Meeting in Freemason Hnll ByaGUlLr-D- IwHiiBurgh Printed for Co 52 Prince Iceat,1817,"This day is published, price One Shilling, A LETTER TO THE GUILDRY OF EDINBURGH, On the Propriety of their late Meeting in Freemason's Hall. By a GUILD-BROTHER, Edinburgh: Printed for MACREDIE, SKELLY & Co. 52. Prince's Street.",classified_ad,3.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486501551/,CTrr ll TO TllE OUIf-DRV OF BCrNUUIlCU UY -DIlOTlirn The of this Letter calls himself Gtiild-UrotliLr but-while he to take an inti-frd in tlic object the Guildry arc now pur- lie raises BO many and so many objections to their of proceeding as to Icnvo no doubt that their would fir atil hirn much more their lie endeavours to persuade them that their ri hls as corporation lire and their In-st to lie by nnd of the of Mercli Cfmpuny tlic Tonics We have no lie would be glad to see of public bodies Ibe saino maxim tin of be would be done nt fill lie tillers oll fit tlio of Mr Ginson ami Mr Innus at on the tli lit- are lawyers -fls ii tirey wore not also merchants and members of by as good title as any person Ilt it tlio ob to aud the Gliildi-y unil the other public but happily it is so Tlie Guildry can only glad to do them disservice if they its tendency is completely tiy iti ifrom it are some individuals who would be,1817,"A LETTER TO THE GUILDRY OF EDINBURGH, BY A GUILD-BROTHER. The author of this Letter calls himself a Guild-Brother; but while he professes to take an interest in the object the Guildry are now pur-suing, he raises so many difficulties, and starts so many objections to their mode of proceeding, as to leave no doubt that their failure would gratify him much more than their success. He endeavours to per-suade them that their rights as a corporation are prescribed, and that their best policy is to lie by, and wait the issue of the proceedings of the Merchant Company and the Trades. We have no doubt that he would be glad to see each of the public bodies adopt the same maxim; the consequence of which would be, that nothing would be done at all. He takes offence at the appearance of Mr GIBSON and Mr INGLIS at the meeting on the 16th, because they are lawyers,—as if they were not also merchants, and members of the guildry, by as good a title as any person present. In short, it is quite clear that the ob-ject of the pamphlet is to discourage and disunite the Guildry and the other public bodies; but happily it is so trashy and conemptible that its mischievous tendency is completely neutralised by its insigni-ficance. The Guildry can only learn from it, that there are some in-dividuals who would be glad to do them a disservice if they could. ",article,4.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486501454/,The College vo tcd 50 guineas out of the hinds ihe Jucoiporation to carry on lie process now before the Court of Session for the reduction of the late of Magistrates On this occasion every possible effort was the admirers of the self-electing system to prevent the motion Jwng carried,1817,"The Royal College of Surgeons have voted 50 guineas, out of the funds of the Incorporation, to carry on the process now before the Court of Session, for the reduction of the late elec-tion of Magistrates. On this occasion, every possible effort was made by the admirers of the self-electing system to pre-vent the motion being carried.",article,5.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486464799/,EDINBURGH REVIEW NO 57 It has been our custom to give notice ol tHe Nuiiilvrs of this Pevicw ns they their we- lire unwilling to luy good customs This Niimbbr commences with LARbOKK nil Hr that comprehension and discrimination which belong only great in criticism 0 ur own notice of work was the first we vr 4 eo it and it is not little gratifying to Inil tlie estimate which we then made of tlic relative worth ot MiH iiF line by authority Tho article nit Irish is of the It is saying ir for it to il is consecutively Il to that jealousy anil distrust of Millialtrs in country like witli Tllu ul Bnuliani il ul- Intcreiitiii it goes far to muke us ai witli in ii li und will iku tlic we an of him thr tion il AnotluT of cor is td lt upon JimihS Tlicrc lo In room-now lell for doubting timt the intrepid li ant Jiiiiiiis is no thu useful nnd ii lii Sir nii ip FIIA NOIS Tlie review of Mr IIIII SpcyLliLs lias i-JMcl in it us ili sl iste is of we was ilk IL-VC Mi rnn irs tirr uid Irrvdoiii Ins tr oii-i 111111 Ur ncot His Vfn-I to Tiie ire tuu just but lliure for Tllerc style ul Orntoiy lint bis might Ir ivc BU virtue,1817,"EDINBURGH REVIEW, NO. 57. It has been our custom to give some notice of the Numbers of this Review as they make their appearance; and we are unwilling to lay aside any good customs. This Number commences with a Review of LALLA ROOKH, an article which certainly displays that compre-hension and discrimination which belong only to one great master in criticism. Our own notice of that work was the first, we believe, that was made of it; and it is not a little gratifying to find, that the estimate which we then made of the relative worth of MOORE'S fine poems, is confirmed by this high authority. The article in Irish af-fairs is of the first importance. It is saying comparatively nothing for it to state that it is ably and consecutively written. It is eminently calculated to rouse that jealousy and constitutional distrust of Ministers which, in a country like this, is attended with so many salutary consequences. The review of Bentham is also able and in-teresting. It goes far to make us acquainted with a man whose high talents, and republican virtues, will make him, the moment we are deprived of him, the boast of his country. Another article of considerable interest is that upon Junius. There seems to be very little room now left for doubting that the intrepid and elegant Junius is no other than the honourable, useful and distinguished SIR PHILLIP FRANCIS. The review of MR PHILLIPS'S Speeches has a something in it which gives us pain and distaste. The remarks are too often just; but there is more of bitterness than we think was called for. There may be a meretricious love of ornament in MR PHILLIPS'S style of oratory; but his fire and freedom, his patriotism and youth, might have secured him softer treatment. His very faults lean to virtue's side.",review,6.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486459664/,This day is published price 6 THE EDINBURGH REVIEW on CRITICAL JOURNAL NUMBER VI CONTENTED-Moore Lalla Roobh-Trade of the Indian Islands-Sueechcs of pii-Tninsactious of the Geological Society Vol 111 -Juiiius- Irish AflRiirs Algebra and Arithmetic of the Hindus-Power of Russia-Mellin Voyage en Italic- Uenthaiii ori Codification-Home Naples and Elorencc Printed fur AnciiiBALB CONSTABLE and Co Edinburgh and Huosr REES and London 1 Of whom may be had The EDINBURGH REVIEW from its commencement in October 1802 or boards,1817,"This day is published, price 6s. THE EDINBURGH REVIEW: OR, CRITICAL JOURNAL, NUMBER LVII. CONTENTS—Moore's Lalla Roosh—Trade of the Indian Islands—Speeches of Mr Phillips—Transactions of the Geological Society, Vol. III.—Junius—Irish Affairs—Algebra and Arithmetic of the Hindus—Power and Policy of Russia—Mellin Voyage en Italic—Bentham on Codification—Rome, Naples, and Florence. Printed for ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE and Co. Edinburgh; and LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, and BROWN, London. Of whom may be had, The EDINBURGH REVIEW from its commencement in October 1802, in numbers or boards.—",classified_ad,7.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486459524/,Tip day is published price Nino Shillings VOLUME FIRST PART SECOND OF THE EDINBURGH GAZETTEER GEOGRAPHICAL CompriBing Complete Body of Gr Physical Political StatisBcalI and Commercial by An ATLAS by to the Prince Regent rica 16 half bound Printed for AiicninALp and Co Edinburgh and LoNGitAxand Co London Of whom may be had VOLUME PART price Isine Shillings,1817,"This day is published, price Nine Shillings, VOLUME FIRST, PART SECOND, OF EDINBURGH GAZETTEER, OR GEOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY; Comprising a Complete Body of GEOGRAPHY, Physical, Political, Statistical, and Commercial. Accompanied by An ATLAS, constructed by A. ARROWSMITH, Hydrographer to the Prince Regent. (Price L.1, 16s. half bound). Printed for ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE and Co. Edinburgh; and LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, and BROWN, London. Of whom may be had, VOLUME I, PART 1, price Nine Shillings ",classified_ad,8.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486458007/,This flay is published Bv IMAKNzn 3 and Mii in Price One Shilling MT ECONOMICAL PLAN POR AN ADDI TIONAL OF WATER FOB THE CITYOF EDINBURGH,1817,"This day is published, By MANNERS and MILLER, Price One Shilling, AN ECONOMICAL PLAN FOR AN ADDITIONAL SUPPLY OF WATER FOR THE CITY OF EDINBURGH.",classified_ad,9.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486457647/,Thit dav is published Ss bound PRACTICAL ENGLISH GRAMMAR Inwliich besides impr iv uow and very is CI INTO THE Vith an extensive Selection of Excrcisca TAPIRS AlACGOWAN Tciiclur of Languages in Edinliurgh Ediiilnireli Printed at tlic University Press for fs vm Pit-LAh 13 IIaiiover,1817,"This day is published, price 3s. bound, A PRACTICAL ENGLISH GRAMMAR, In which, besides other improvements, a new and very IMPORTANT SIMPLIFICATION IS INTRODUCED INTO THE SYNTAX. With an exten-sive Selection of Appropriate Exercises. By JAMES MACGOWAN, Teacher of Languages in Edinburgh. Edinburgh: Printed at the University Press, for FRANCIS PILLANS, 13 South Hanover Street.",classified_ad,10.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486457410/,an honourable epoch in the history of the Courts of Westunistcr It will not belong to England alone but to thc It will tench the well-informed part of mankind in kingdom What is their true and only uard against authority nnd to the institutions of Trial by Jury icy must look for national and individual security There is othing in tlie preceding records of trial for libel to be with this event The case in which the Editor of this aper defended himself and tlie more recent one in which Mr so ably displayed his patriotism and eloquence sink nothing in comparison with tlie arduous conflict which HONE sustained with such superiority of intellect ver all hia opponents and such maintenance of temper un- er interruptions that were calculated to confuse and distract is argument What an exhibition of the enlightened slate of England did his conduct make man in low and straitened struggling for bread under the burdens which he system of Administration lie complained of had if ht iit- t-hrt mitin mi tn if reading to put his learned adversaries to the blush and with sentiments of reverence for the Constitution gave vigour to his faculties and made him irresistible in ts defence Of such energies are the friends of freedom So are all to the privileges for which their forefathers iled and an example of would many of them called forth display though few perhaps could be found equal resources and equal talent Let us on the present occasion be grateful to our by Jury What glorious discharge if the duty entrusted to them of passing between tile conscience lot according to the dictum of Magistrate successively pronounced on the alleged libel not innocent of intention It is the- province of Jurors of the crime for it is maxim of or the noble institution of Trial xample did those three Panels give of the King and Jie subject-and of deciding according to their When three sets of Jurors have thus ofthose Parodies who shall say that they were to search for the intention which makes tlie body law Actus nw ft reum msi mcns sii We cannot add any thing to Mr HOSES own rsa luminous argument butwe must express our gratitude to Mr Wopi ER and Mr for having so of-the register book of persons qualified iu Juries This is the first appearance of Juries struck from though we think that in criminal cases there Juries since that is not misdemeanour at all yet it is evidently of in cases of libel at least the Jury should be struck taken from set of men that make seasonably brought into question the defective state theCity of London to sit book Jnlly and made out ought to be no distinction between special and common to the understanding of twelve common men is no the utmost importance to the well-being of society that impartially and that the panel should not bs lucrative trade of trying causes,1817,"an honourable epoch in the history of the Courts of West-minster. It will not belong to England alone, but to the earth. It will teach the well-informed part of mankind in every kingdom, what is their true and only safeguard against despotic authority, and that to the institutions of Trial by Jury they must look for national and individual security. There is nothing in the preceding records of trial for libel to be com-pared with this event. The case in which the Editor of this paper defended himself, and the more recent one in which Mr WOOLER so ably displayed his patriotism and eloquence, sink to nothing in comparison with the arduous conflict which WILLIAM HONE sustained with such superiority of intellect over all his opponents; and such maintenance of temper, under interruptions that were calculated to confuse and distract his argument. What an exhibition of the enlightened state of England did his conduct make ! A man in low and straitened circumstances, struggling for bread under the burdens which the system of Administration that he complained of had brought upon the country, shewed a mind endowed with stores of reading to put his learned adversaries to the blush, and impressed with sentiments of reverence for the Constitution, which gave vigour to his faculties, and made him irresistible in its defence. Of such energies are the friends of freedom ! So devoted are they all to the privileges for which their forefathers bled, and such an example of firmness which many of them, if called forth, display, though few perhaps could be found with equal resources and equal talent. Let us, on the present occasion, be grateful to our ancestors for the noble institution of Trial by Jury !–What a glorious example did those three successive Panels give of the discharge of the duty entrusted to them of passing between the King and the subject–and of deciding according to their conscience, not according to the dictum of a Magistrate ! When three distinct sets of Jurors have thus successively pronounced on the alleged libel of those Parodies, who shall say that they were not innocent of intention ? It is the province of Jurors to search for the intention, which makes the body of the crime, for it is a maxim of law, ""Actus non fit reum nisi mons sit rea."" We cannot add any thing to Mr HONE's own luminous ar-gument ; but we must express our gratitude to Mr WOOLER and Mr PEARSON, for having so seasonably brought into question the defective state of the register book of persons qualified in the City of London to sit on Special Juries. This is the first appearance of Juris struck from a book fully and fairly made out; and though we think that in criminal cases there ought to be no distinction between special and common Juries, since a misdemeanour that is not palpable to the understanding of twelve common men is no misdemeanour at all ; yet it is evi-dently of the utmost importance to the well-being of society, that in cases of libel, at least, the Jury should be struck im-partially, and that the panel should not be taken from a set of men that make a lucrative trade of trying causes. ",article,11.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486455698/,to tliO InfiiTOiry i-i not tlie worst or the nch by Ilie Abrrilocn junto In to provide support extravagance procured in 1810 anew Iluibour act and took that opportunity tp rein as they termed it thu lable uacd tlic acts 1773 anil 1795 -By this revisal Ihc IMagisiratcs in many enacted barr than formerly ton ami ali enacted iu when lie tu imrs when res in tlic very savir they had imi tm Mrkd And tills so directly ruinous to the trade ot the city wua framed nny froni nrw act of Parliament to lessen the bulk of the goods ton or to impose duties on the Wo state these ami we could slate many of the Barnc kind on the very licit authority anil we certainly think they will bear out nil that li ii been or can be said about public conduct of the Aberdeen Mn- i-,1817,"smaller sums to the Infirmary, &c., is not the worst of the acts committed by the Aberdeen junto. In order to provide funds to support their extravagances, they procured, in 1810, a new Harbour act, and took that opportunity to revise, as they termed it, the bulkage table used under the acts 1773 and 1795. By this revisal the Magistrates, in many instances, enacted that fewer barrels than formerly should constitute a ton; and they also enacted, that goods when reshipped should be subjected to SECOND SHORE DUES, even when reshipped in the very same package in which they had been imported. And this precious regulation, so directly ruinous to the trade of the city, was framed without any authority from the new act of Parliament, either to lessen the bulk of the goods constituting a ton, or to impose duties on the reshipment! We state these facts, and we could state many more of the same kind, on the very best authority; and we certainly think they will bear out all that has been said, or can be said, about the public conduct of the Aberdeen Magistrates.",article,12.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486446087/,SEQU-E STRATI ON 8 Jninos icon founder and carrier in Gla Cpnnerly an individual the 1 sole of Thomag Greener and Co of llif Caledonian l- there Andrew Elder coal nia-chant and grocer Edinburgh,1817,"SEQUESTRATIONS James Hargreaves, iron founder and carrier in Glasgow, formerly an individual, afterwards the sole partner of Thomas Greener and Co. of the Caledonian Foundry there. Andrew Elder, a coal merchant and grocer, Edinburgh.",article,13.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486445912/,UK CIlALMJERS On Wednesday tilis Reverend Gentleman preached in St Cutlibcrt Church Sermonin behalf of the Irish Education Society to it is believed of between four and five persons The collection amounted tpL lpO 4 PorrcadCM must not that wc because MC arc row to praise Dr In making the our last Niltnbcr we had to struggle with fi his favour liut duty consu-ained and afn T- has not yet enabled us to ny thing in what we then said like undue severity It great pleasure that we can now in justice change our tone The discourse of Wednesday though net perfect as to the matter or is yet deserving of very high praise It was not -it was sound practical and searching Coming from the heart This was its great virtue Coining from penetrating and judgment of others This was its great value heart as we are persuaded it did it went to the po it carried conviction to the But he qualities which the creative of expression and Hdrlessnsss without shrinking at any human -ation or turning in Richard was himself again,1817,"DR CHALMERS. On Wednesday last, this Reverend Gentleman preached in St. Cuthbert's Church a Sermon in behalf of the Irish Education Society, to a genteel audience, it is believed, of between four and five thousand persons. The collection amounted to L.180:4:3. Our readers must not think that we act inconsistently because we are now to praise DR CHALMERS. In making the remarks in our last Number, we had to struggle with strong prejudices in his favour. But duty constrained us to censure; and after-reflection has not yet enabled us to perceive any thing in what we then said like undue severity. It gives us great pleasure, however, that we can now in justice change our tone. The discourse of Wednesday, though not perfect either as to the matter or manner, is yet deserving of very high praise. It was not merely eloquent,–it was sound, practical, and searching. Coming from the heart, as we are persuaded it did, it went to the heart. This was its great virtue. Coming from a penetrating and powerful judgment, it carried home conviction to the judgment of others. This was its great value. But the qualities which command-ed the greatest admiration, were the creative power of expression, and the moral fearlessness with which the preacher went forward in his purpose, without shrinking at any human consideration, or turning in the smallest degree to the right or the left. Here ""Richard was himself again."" Here DR CHALMERS shewed us practically what a Christian Preacher should be; and in his clear definition of Chris-tian charity, and in his powerful and feeling appeal to its principles as it ought to affect the practice of all, he evinced his possession of qua-lities which put it in his power not only to make amends for his late aberration, but also to disarm censure its sting. The publication of this Discourse, we are sure, would add more to his reputation than was lost by the last. But independently of all regard to himself, he owes the publication of this Charity Sermon to his country. It would be conferring a benefit generally; and to Ireland, in particular, it would be of very great advantage. It would make the heart of every true Irishman leap with joy; and while it would tend powerfully to root out prejudices, it would also sow the seeds of love, and peace, and charity.",article,14.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486445827/,WEDNESDAY December 34 The Honourable Rusiiy Minister from the United States to our Cou rt li ns arrived at Cowe an may be expected in London this day or to-morrow His Excellency with his shipp in ofT-l the fii ofthat class that lias been Been in port the and Captain BAU-Aiin The been by is to be the vessel of her class ever proceed in fcw da the snu- ill sta is son of the best skilled nautical of Portsmouth and built in America Her burden ia 2000 tons She will Mediterranean to join the Ainpr Falhl blast took lace nt the Plain it Rainton by which between SQ men aud the full of one of the men Explosion of fire damp -Friday morning Durham belonging to tlie Teinpciit ily were killed According to report it wns cau- ed in using instead of Sir -CY DAVY Lamp Fortunately few of the men hud have been involved in It is supposed out in about The which renowned fortress the Earl of is of tlie town wlio lias leading in the office of Oriiriincc Storekeeper and lie profession nnd his place by large mortar in to work or might the pit would have been wrought Urdnancc reductions have not yet reached Scarborough Castle 0 Tiic Apot among tlie voters of that independent Borough still the emblem 0 his front of his shop,1817,"LONDON WEDNESDAY, December 24. The Honourable J. RUSH, Minister from the United States to our Court, has arrived at Cowes, and may be expected in London this day or to-morrow. His Excellency, with his family and suite, came over in the American ship of war Franklin, of 74 guns, the first of that class that has been seen in a British port, bearing the broad pendant of Commodore STUART, and commanded by Captain BALLARD. The Ambassador is a son of the celebrated Dr RUSH, of Philadelphia. The Franklin has been examined by some of the best skilled nautical Gentlemen of Portsmouth, and is allowed to be the finest vessel of her class ever built in America. Her burden in 2000 tons. She will be produced in a few days for the Mediterranean, to join the American squadron in the sea. Fatal Explosion of fire damp.–Friday morning a blast took place at the Plain pit, Rainton, Durham, belonging to the Tempest family, by which between 20 and 30 men and boys were killed. According to report it was caused by the folly of one of the men in using a candle instead of Sir HUMPHREY DAVY's Lamp. Fortunately few of the men had descended to their work, or 160 might have been involved in the calamity. It is supposed the pit would have been wrought out in about a fortnight. The Ordnance reductions have not yet reached Scarborough Castle, of which renowned fortress the Earl of MULGRAVE is Governor. The principal Apothecary of the town, who has a leading influence among the voters of that independent Borough, still continues in the office of Ordnance Store-keeper ; and he very happily displays the emblem of both his profession and his place, by a large mortar in front of his shop. 
",article,15.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486444103/,Printed Tor the PB 01 by -rr WWityr Old Barilt CtKcand Publiiliednt NO St 7 Bl li Street opposite St Gilcsli limn ipos be to Ncwto Co NO Warwick Square Wnroirk Lane Mcwp te Btrwtaf-ents for lon Price 5 whi in rout port free to the country Ci Ifnaliliniiilvaniv Il lfv rln -A is An orders sent Ilic Cwintry Iv with remittance cr ri In wiii If Sitialr,1817,"Printed for the PROPRIETERS by Abernethy & Walker, Old Bank Close, and Published at NO. 847 High Street, Opposite St. Giles's, where all communica-tions (post paid) may be sent, or to Newton & Co. NO. 5. Warwick Square, Warwick Lane, Newgate Street, agents for London. Price £2.5, 5s, when delivered in town, or sent post free to the country, and £8, 8s, if paid in advance. Half year and quarter in proportion. N.B.–It is requested that orders sent from the Country may be accompanied either with a remittance, or a reference to some person in Edinburgh.",other,16.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486439758/,TRIALS OF WILLIAM HONE WE BIOKfS OF AKD TBm IBE tT Of THE TED There have been such gross this power of restraining men from publishing the tenets which Magistrates have reputed dangerous it is uo wonder many good are unwilling to allow it If in any case the frequent danger of abuse would make void right it would be iu -for the publishing of opinions andsocial virtue uice the warm zealots of all sides have represented all schemes opposite to their own opposite also to all goodness Virtue ever was and will be popular where men can vote freely Moral Philosophy,1817,"TRIALS OF WILLIAM HONE. THE RIGHTS OF JURIES, AND THE LIBERTY OF THE PRESS THRICE VINDICATED. There have been such gross abuses of power of restraining men from publishing the tenets which Magistrates have reputed dangerous, that it is no wonder many good men are unwilling to allow it. If in any case the frequent danger of abuse would make void a right, it would be in this of publishing for the publishing of opinions eversive of piety and social virtue; since the warm zealots of all sides have represented all schemes opposite to their own, opposite also to all good-ness. Virtue ever was and will be popular, where men can vote freely. HUTCHESON'S Moral Philosophy. ",front_page,17.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486415907/,SECOND EDITION fi 1 Or Airl nMCB TnOTpitW Ediiilmrgh TW -PrEI Alt OI RACHELS Oil OF W-SfRCTTO Preached Gth Nbveiulicr 6 7 on of the Deaths or her Hoyal Highness Hie Princess CtiABi oTTis Of WALES In fant Son By CULnERTSON JMinistervT the Gospel Lcitli Price-One SliiUm,1817,"SECOND EDITION. This day is published, by OGLE, ALLARDICE & THOMSON, Edinburgh. THE PILLAR OF RACHEL'S GRAVE, OR A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT TO DEPARTED WORTH. A SERMON, Preached 16th November 1817, on occasion of the Deaths of her Royal Highness the Princess CHARLOTTE of WALES, and her In-fant SON. By ROBERT CULBERTSON, Minister of the Gospel, Leith. Price One Shilling.",classified_ad,18.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486433108/,It may he nere ary rrm irk tir tin won plied popularly in vny dili IIM lu lli in wli cli ii ir by lawyer Wilh ilie ii er it nir ins pit iiii nud lias no reference lu rln tli Jury or to Cuurt Tliis of till of ilsr scull to hew the perversion of ihf Perhaps less to Mr Scailptt dun 10 oilier King Counsel lor his reputation lii is iil ti to argue law in ill Inancli to LI nl lii and of Ilia Linit-- IIL- lia- hardly lo rc ii iis il mu,1817,"It may be necessary to remark, that the word pleading is applied popularly in a very different sense to that in which it is used by lawyers. With the latter, it means merely the preparation of laborious formalities, and has no reference to speeches either to the Jury or to the Court. This perversion of the term of itself seems to show the perversion of the practice. Perhaps this remark applies less to Mr Scarlett than to any other King's Counsel, for his reputation is such, that he is often employed to argue matters of mere law, especially in the branch relating to settlements; yet he has hardly time to read his briefs, and frequently argues difficult questions at sight, much to the satisfaction of his clients. ",article,19.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486399849/,When the Lndy Montgomerie of Saltcoats Captuin Hamilton was taking Ayr port on Wednesday the main-top-gallant mast gave way and young lad of tlie name of Andrew Baird who was on the rigging at the time was tin-own into tile sea nnd drowned Mr MCaskie formerly tallow-chandler Dumfries fell into tile river on the morning of Sunday lust and was drowned Hugh Ross from Ballantrae lately indicted to stand trial before tlic High Court of Justiciary on the 7 th inst for robbing carrier cart attempted some days ago to put an end to his existence cutting his hut the wound was not fatal and we quarter MGG ships have North Sea and 1881 from the Baltic Great preparations at all tlie fishing stations on tlie cast Saturday Nairn this season one boats took about fifteen the crew with premium often pounds he is likely to recover In the second passed the Sound namely 2585 from the have been made for the fishing at Nairn and lit being tlie first attempt at barrels and the company manager clock as 11 Gentleman accompanied gig on the banks of tlie Forth and Mrlfiiwltuly Acc -Wednesday morning about ten ilia daughter was driving Clyde Canal near Lock No 1 the horse took fright and plunged were precip into tlie shortly alter in lifeless state but into tlie water the Canal The was drowned and tlie gentleman was taken out is expected to recover The horse was also drowned,1818,"When the Lady Montgomerie, of Saltcoats, Captain Hamil-ton, was taking Ayr port on Wednesday, the main-top-gallant mast gave way, and a young lad of the name of Andrew Baird, who was on the rigging at the time, was thrown into the sea and drowned. Mr McCaskie, formerly tallow-chandler, Dumfries, fell into the river on the morning of Sunday last, and was drowned. Hugh Ross, from Ballantrae, lately indicted to stand trial before the High Court of Justiciary on the 7th inst. for robbing a carrier's cart, attempted some days ago to put an end to his existence, by cutting his throat; but the wound was not fatal, and we understand he is likely to recover. In the second quarter 4466 ships have passed the Sound; namely, 2585 form the North Sea, and 1881 from the Baltic. Great preparations have been made for the herring fishing at Nairn, and at all the fishing stations on the east. Saturday se'night being the first attempt at Nairn this season, one of the boats took about fifteen barrels, and the company's manager presented the crew with a premium of ten pounds. Melanchony Accident.–Wednesday morning about ten o'-clock, as a Gentleman, accompanied by his daughter, was driving a gig on the banks of the Forth and Clyde Canal, near Lock No. 16. the horse took fright, and plunged into the wa-ter, when the whole were precipitated into the Canal. The lady was drowned, and the gentleman was taken out shortly after in a lifeless state, but is expected to recover. The horse was also drowned.",article,20.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486448397/,Cur ious FRACAS -Saturday evening the inhabitants Strand near Southampton Street were from dwellings to witness nost scene in which Lady find Gentleman dressed in the first style of elegance and fashion were riding was passing ninny gentle rate when another Lady who was walking witli tn children suddenly left and rushing into the road seized the horses heads and called to the coachman to stop The roan who seemed to know her immediately obeyed mid the Liuly then proceeded to tlic side of the the Gcntk- with infidelity anil with deserting be expected crowd speedily persons upon the Lady to that she resided near Grosvcnor Square and that the vehicle began in loud and strong terms to upbraid her in her children As mig the carriage and some explain She declared her name to lie B-- villain in the barouche was her husband She with great vehemence to inform the persons him that the two children were the He hiid married for her money and three months ago continued that she had been married about three her and she was now regnant with third he left lier near Petworth to come to London not hearing from him she up hut had not been Vy his side had formerly lived which from tlic extraordinary TOlubility of the excited the sympathy of of two police officers who happened to come up at would have tyred badly as it was by the persuasions of two or three the astonished Inislmid having consented to receive His injured able to find him until the present moment the as housemaid in the family This statement did not occupy more than two-or the crowd and hut for the the time the couple in the- carriage some handfuls of dir were thrown at them At length persons the was induced to leave the nnd wife with the children into tlie vehicle they loved oft Mind the cheers of the multitude There were although the whole scene did not occupy more not loss than hundred persons assembled than ten minutes,1818,"CURIOUS FRACAS.–Saturday evening, the inhabitants of the Strand near Southampton Street, were called from their dwellings to witness a most extraordinary scene. A barouche, in which a Lady and Gentleman, dressed in the first style of elegance and fashion, were riding, was passing along at a gen-tle rate, when another Lady, who was walking with two chil-dren, suddenly left them, and rushing into the road, seized the horses' heads, and called to the coachman to stop. The man, who seemed to know her, immediately obeyed, and the Lady then proceeded to the side of the vehicle, being in loud and strong terms to upbraid the Gentleman with infidelity, and with deserting her and her children. As might be expected, a crowd speedily collected about the carriage, and some per-sons called upon the Lady to explain. She then declared her name to be B––––, that she resided near Grosvenor Square, and that ""the villain"" in the barouche was her husband. She continued with great vehemence to inform the persons assem-bled, that she had been married about three years to him, that the two children were the offspring of her marriage, and she was now pregnant with a third. He had married her for her money, and three months ago he left her near Petworth, to come to London; not hearing from him she came up, but had not been able to find him until the present moment; the ""strumpet"" by his side had formerly lived as a housemaid in the family. This statement, which, from the extraordinary volubility of the Lady, did not occupy more than two or three minutes, excited the sympathy of the crowd, and but for the interference of two police officers, who happened to come up at the time, the couple in the carriage would probably have fared badly; as it was, some handfuls of dirt were thrown at them. At length, by the persuasions of two or three respect-able persons, the courtezan was induced to leave the carriage, and the astonished husband having consented to receive his injured wife with the children into the vehicle, they moved oft amid the cheers of the multitude. There were not less than three hundred persons assembled, although the whole scene did not occupy more than ten minutes.",article,21.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486433456/,Our readers will find in of paper an article dated Nuremberg 14 th July is deserving of their attention It has always to us as one of Ihe greatest and most -- derelictions of duty on the part of the Congress that at tlie epoch of the of tlie Lcginnates they did not urge the adoption of sonic measure to prevent harassing their ow subjets and those of their nei by regulations respecting commercial affairs lis was especially 3 in tlie case of those states Jie natural market for whose produce to in different territory The disadvantage resulted lo and industry GLTmany from lie duties levied the Holjanil iil tlie petty princes of llie country on goods along the Uhinc -lang since complaints Some curious details hf nature and extent of these grievances lic French Itevolulion nrc given by -ItiESBi-c in Travels in Uerman 1 ey were ilu otie most description and it would fie to Altliougli is cr u- oi ay yet is ey ImVu not Jiitlto been amended chiefly ts ol of,1818,"Our readers will find, in another column of this pa-per, an article dated Nuremberg, 14th July, which is deserving of their attention. It has always appeared to us as one of the greatest and most unjustifiable de-relictions of duty on the part of the Congress mongers, that at the epoch of the restoration of the Legitimates, they did not urge the adoption of some general mea-sure to prevent them harassing their own subjects, and those of their neighbours, by vexatious and oppressive regulations respecting commercial affairs. This was especially necessary in the case of those states, the na-tural market for whose produce happens to be besituat-ed in a different territory. The disadvantages which have resulted to the commerce and industry of Ger-many from the duties levied by the Hollands, and the petty princes of the country, on goods passing a-long the Rhine, have long since occasioned violent complaints. Some curious details respecting the na-ture and extent of these grievances previous to the French Revolution, are given by RIESBERG in his Travels in Germany. They were then of the most harassing description; and it would appear from the article referred to, that they have not hitherto been amended. Although this is a matter which chiefly concerns the interests of the people of Germany, yet is also of
",article,22.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486445473/,FHE 3 EDINBURGH January 10 IO CORllESPONDENTS arc sorry we cannot insert tin poetical from--- Tlio irt lo- ot Pr 1 i-it witt in our next -In til Kt iic e-f of K- ii tl not 1 to an -d ur nium UKf Ui ti ot Civisi,1818,"THE SCOTSMAN EDINBURGH, SATURDAY, January 10 TO CORRESPONDENTS We are sorry we cannot insert the poetical extracts from –-. The solilo-quy of a ""Pretended Provost"" will perhaps appear in our next.–In the circum-stances of the case, we could not venture to publish an unauthenticated state-ment like that of Civis Edinburgensis. ",masthead,23.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486504866/,HINT TO THQSiE HOLD PRQ ERTlY ns RO AL BURGHS IiriiMiny -RoyttI Boroughs the common property and revenues have Magistrates for the time been profusely di or privately and for the havc applied to ends and totally different from those directed by law and debts conflicted Without any necessity iuf ii jJ- sw cf 168 KQ Q- rt -i Ih,1818,"HINTS TO THOSE WHO HOLD PROPERTY IN ROYAL BURGHS. In many of our Royal Boroughs, the common property and reve-nues have, by the Magistrates for the time, been either profusely di-lapidated or privately peculated, and for the most part have been ap-plied to ends and purposes totally different from those directed by law, and debts contracted without any necessity. Act of Charles II. 1684.",front_page,24.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486457205/,This day arc li By BLACKWOOD No IT PuixrE CREST In four volumes 12 mo price 1 8-i THK FoiriiTK EDITION or TALES OF MV Collected acd arranged JEDEDIAH Prinlcd fbr 17 Prince Street EdinbBrg and Joan Albcmaric Street London,1818,"This day are published, by WILLIAM BLACKWOOD, NO. 17. PRINCE'S STREET In four volumes 12mo, price L.1, 8s., boards, THE FOURTH EDITION OF TALES OF MY LANDLORD, Collected and arranged by JEDEDIAH CLEISHBOTHOM. Printed for WILLIAM BLACKWOOD, 17. Prince's Street, Edinburgh and JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street, London.",display_ad,25.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486445745/,This day is published By PETER Hni Co Edinburgh THE STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND By Sin JOHN SINCLAIR Bart in 21 vols 8 vo price 12 12 in boards,1818,"This day is published, By PETER HILL & Co. Edinburgh, THE STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND. By SIR JOHN SINCLAIR, Bart. in 21 vols 8vo, price L.12, 12s. in boards.",display_ad,26.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486445674/,LEtrH tre nn ATw VPiUi iii 3 lli flq ahd Parro froin htt in Tav l- AIae Trieste wilh CoDc urr ro in Ku witli cinders Sicrmaid Orkney Union Christie and En Millar from ditto coals Caltlioriie Neivlon from Blackney and ExI rC wit grain Dili Rence Uunlpp frou Lcrr ck Hawk Niy bn lWt od vart PiCf shire Pu ey Cfcrtr oIl -fat -costle Tu 5 -J tle Uniun alla KiriK or Gur fo fl mo ll froin- J- Coldstrearq HoiKi and Crii liton Tn ly ln surl wft CaledSriiaiyorinadripfHi hilI aii ao uig Irciili -MnoIsuii ibi- Hbll Pilot SaiideR on on- don all with ood Youghall and Galawfy with herrings and uh- don with goods coals Ocean lito uru lor,1818,"LEITH SHIPPING. January 3. Arrived–William Laird, from Memel, with flax and timbers; Thomas Harro, from Bergen, with herrings; Tav McAlae, from Trieste, with sulphur and goods; Concord Murray, from New-castle, with cinders; Mermaid, Orkney; Union, Christie; and Euphemia, Millar, from ditto, with coals; Calthorpe, Newton, from Blackney; and Express, Heatly, from Ayemouth, with grain; Dili-gence, Dunlop, from Londonderry; Coldstream, Campbell, from Lerwick; Hawk, Nisbett; Hope, Ord; and Ocean, Crichton, from London, all with goods; Trusty, Anderson; Swift, Stewart; Fife-shire, Fussey; and Caledonia, Johnston, from London, all with goods. Cleared out.–Little Betsy, Ford, for Lynn, with planting; Leith and Newcastle, Taith, for Newcastle; Union, Nicolson, for Hull; Pilot, Sanderson; Eagle, Tod, and King George Gunton, for Lon-don, all with goods; Edinburgh, Banks, for Youghall and Galway, with herrings and coals; Ocean, Crichton, and Hope, Ord, for Lon-don, all with goods.",article,27.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486405733/,The following ai Riir appeared L- lumber of the Morning Chronicle -The editor of The Tinw is frani nnd candid in the awal of Ilia sentiments as to tlie principle on newb- ought to be conducted To follow iho opinion of the day anil ivcr wit it lik-c tlie tail 01 pup kite floats in the iiir inJ takes -id that blow is certainly tlio nt wuh liu crowd Tiiis is not our 1 lic cour- of i- Murring CVron ic Ti ws is Jircscribc -r cs-but our -3 arc in tlie grave Tliu its 6 lir fi- ilc ns as- at the Itcvoiution ire by urh uu StCl T-aiid the vc receive tlie ol orr only mr-Atur which lie bfq as Icgncy to friends in were c-il ind In the iii 3 in of tiiu it give every has two uii it is Lfttfr tlie best So tu both to support Ministers and to tl cin condemn it-to il -t pcr ccu ion Dms -f who it prudent tu anJ llic liberties to mankind Th Tw ei in lv to be to If ir which is -both to ap peace und n-id cry it- Sir Uutlfavc hr el In get to the bottom of the cix ii pn rnt ii UJ it so We tlie of bring the constant organ ot liberty und ty aiid -and study life to incur from The Times nnd it associate Mr irn ii Uj Jt it i-hail ci ir deserve ha xy -r --qu,1818,"The following admirable castigation appeared in a late num-ber of the Morning Chronicle:– The Editor of The Times is frank and candid in the avowal of his sentiments as to the mercantile principle on which a newspaper ought to be conducted. To follow the prevailing opinion of the day, and waver with it, like the tail of a paper kite which floats in the air, and takes the direction of the wind that blows, is certainly the means of being popular with the crowd. This is not our course. ""The course of The Morn-ing Chronicle,"" says The Times, ""is prescribed by its masters."" Yes–but our masters are in the grave. The rights of the peo-ple, as asserted at the Revolution, are the principles by which we steer–and the dictates we received from the mouth of our first and only master (rules which, having practised himself, he bequeathed as a legacy to his friends and followers) were zeal, perseverance, and disinterestedness in the maintenance of the doctrines that secured the liberties of our country, and would, in universal, give happiness to mankind. The Times may think, that as every question has two sides, it is better to be of both, to learn which is the best. So to be both for taxes and against them–both to support Ministers and to oppose them–both to applaud peace and condemn it–to abet persecution and de-cry it–like Sir Bullface Doubleface, who thought it prudent to take a brief both from plaintiff and defendant, that he might get to the bottom of the case, is prudent manoeuvring. Be it so! We incur from The Times and its associate MR COBBETT the imputation of being the constant organ of men who stand up for justice, liberty, and humanity; and it shall be our pride and study through life to deserve what they consider an oblo-quy.",article,28.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486399262/,His was the of talent of-liBeral feeling and of nian 1 ic The sophistry by been endeavoured to shew that these prosecutions were 1 hot of political BufoT religious character is lll and cb Wpose on any person parod fte cI ap published To out any Antijacobjn poetry of-Mr-GAnNiNCk-is one-continued and offensive parody andeven-the speeches of Lord EKDONcdhtaTn Litari Cat published by toend than are to be Mr Hone These however were all oh the side of tion and in and were therefore and bul assoon ig Ministry-on their own ground then all be hurled ability and public spirit of Mr HONE defeat and corrup be held up as pieces of admirable wit 8 poor -and friendless individual thought and of attacking them with own weapons on his ted head But thanks to the disgrace have recoiled oh themselves and the Juries ofEngland have shewn parodist tlie same protection as the parodists CJ people is at least entitled unprincipled pable i- tlie projet of the law relative to the Freetloiiri The resolution for continuing the by very slender majority but an important deposit pfa work constitutes itsi The discussions the French Chamber of Deputies bo -oF the Press have at length terminate Journals for another year was carried declaring that Jlhe and publication was carried The Dutch Government have thrown open the trade and have lowered import and export duty on Teato papers state that the decision of the Hi gh Court of Brussels in SIDMOUTH it ould are freedom of the press May their success 1 1 trifle 1 1 Belgian DuIce of WELLING- has again appealed from the his case with the Flemish editor to the Court about persevering ri ihe at- cfcs on the,1818,"His was the triumph of talent, of liberal feeling, and of manly independence. The wretched sophistry by which it has been endeavoured to shew, that these pro-secutions were not of a political but of a religious cha-racter, is too silly and contemptible to impose on any person. Parody after parody has been published for centuries without any prosecution. The Antijacobin poetry of MR CANNING is one continued and offensive parody from beginning to end; and even the speeches of LORD ELDON contain much grosser allusions, than are to be found in the Litany or Catechism published by Mr Hone. These, however, were all on the side of corruption and in ridicule of liberty, and were, there-fore, to be held up as pieces of admirable wit and humour; but as soon as a poor and friendless individual thought of meeting Ministry on their own ground, and of attacking them with their own weapons, then all the vengeance of the law was to be hurled on his devo-ted head. But thanks to the ability and public spirit of MR HONE, defeat and disgrace have recoiled on them-selves; and the Juries of England have shewn that a parodist for the people is at least entitled to the same protection, as the parodists of an unprincipled and in-capable administration. The discussions in the French Chamber of Deputies, on the project of the law relative to the Freedom of the Press, have at length terminated. The resolution for continuing the surveillance of the Journals for an-other year was carried by a very slender majority; but an important amendment, declaring that the dis-tribution, and not the deposit of a work constitutes its publication, was carried against Ministers by a majo-rity of 11. The Dutch Government have thrown open the trade to China, and have lowered the import and export duty on Tea to a mere trifle. Belgian papers state, that the Duke of WELLING-TON has again appeared from the decision of the High Court of Brussels, in his case with the Flemish editor, to the Court of Cassation. The DUKE and SIDMOUTH, it would seem, are about alike persevering in their at-tacks on the freedom of the press. May their success be equal!
",article,29.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486455497/,LITERARY INTERCOURSE -We always- feel very much obliged to our Contemporaries when they do us the of extracting any of our articles and on this account we have to return our best thanks to our friend the Editor of the EDINBURGH ADVERTISER for In insertion of our critique on ROB ROY and we shall be still more grateful if he will notice few of our POLITICAL paragraphs in the same handsome manner,1818,LITERARY INTERCOURSE.–We always feel very much obliged to our Contemporaries when they do us the honour of extracting any of our articles; and on this account we have to return our best thanks to our friend the Editor of the EDINBURGH ADVERTISER for his insertion of our critique on ROB ROY: and we shall be still more grateful if he will notice a few of our POLITICAL paragraphs in the same handsome man-ner.,article,30.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486456369/,Lately published in octavo price 12 in boards SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL MATHEMATICS CONTA 1 Geometrical Problems Plane Trigonometry Mensuration of I-Iciglits and Distances of Surfaces and Solids Cuiiii Suctions Specid Gravity Arliticers Measuring Land Measuring Gauging Gunnery and Spherical Trigonometry With its application to the tOI LIION Ol- 1 1 IUL CiEOCBAIlUCAI SIC AM UCAL liMS are added TnUcs of null Secants DEsiONEn roil Tim SK or BKI and BnAnFriE Edinburgh and for und London This is practical itics mil well to supply to long wanted scientific knowledge ami good arrangement willi small of lumbers of Sines Tiiii nts By JOHN Teaclier Uurntislaiid 1 for LONGMAN HKlis OniiK aiid OCI mn and very judicious compendium of teachers nnd pupils ill species of school aiid moderate pik-p annexed arc extremely neat and accurate and will collections Vfiltsh Critic for Drccmber 1 17 The log every ll purpose as well is thomo st expensive,1818,"Lately published in octavo, price 12s. in boards, A SYSTEM OF PRACTICAL MATHEMATICS; CONTAINING Geometrical Problems, Plane Trigonometry, Mensuration of Heights and Distances, of Surfaces and Solids, Conic Sections, Specific Gravity, Artificers' Measuring, Land Measuring, Gaugin, Gun-nery, and Spherical Trigonometry. With its application to the SOLUTION OF SOME USEFUL GEOGRAPHICAL GEODESIC, AND ASTRONOMICAL PROBLEMS. To which are added, Tables of the Logarithms of Numbers, and of Sines, Tangents, and Secants. DESIGNED FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. By JOHN DAVIDSON, A.M. Teacher, Burntisland. Printed for BELL and BRADFUTE, Edinburgh; and for LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, and BROWN; OGLES, DUNCAN, and COHRANE; and R. STODART, London. This is a masterly and very judicious compendium of practical mathematics, and seems well calculated to supply to both teachers and pupils in this department, a species of school-book long wanted, combining scientific knowledge and good arrangement with small size and moderate price. The logarithmical tables annexed are extremely neat and accurate, and will answer every practical purpose, as well as the most expensive collections. British Critic for December 1817.",display_ad,31.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486463578/,1 or proof of this Mr RifAiino late -the most profound nnd original that lias ever been published on lie science of Political Economy,1818,"For a proof of this, see Mr RICHARDO's late work;–the most profound and original that has ever been published on the science of Political Economy.",front_page,32.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486498907/,TO SrssciirsF RS -The Propietors nf he nil ir receipt icr us Paper beg fs mention the Totfn Subscriber who da not the Office will al dur ti eiii Lot Stlsrri xrs hr KC mt a-l sc the cn fii-L- lfd in rc Ay rr- ur crrr Ti save the ff to these mini -pay or half yearly tin- -t paper nf the quarter cr half year be put up in ii blue cover,1818,"TO SUBSCRIBERS.–The Proprietors of this Paper beg to mention, that the Town Subscribers who do not call at the Office, will be waited on with receipts for what is due by them. Coun-try Subscribers, who have not already settled with the Agent, are requested to remit the sums due by their respective carriers. To save the expense of notices to those who pay quarterly or half yearly, the last paper of the quarter or half year will be put up in a blue cover.",other,33.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486499121/,THE STAR OF FREEDOM Majestic moving through the western skies Sec the glad harbinger of Frccilom rise Unlike the Mi-teor transient of light Its beams are and its bright Through exhalation it tracks its way For nought impedes the passage of its ray bursting Hazy Behold its cheering fires through glow In vain the noxious vapours spreading wide Would wrap in gloom and all its glories hide In vain they mount to reach its lucid flame In vain to quench its lustre will they aim For where the aspiring pestilential air Would shroud in darkness all radiance fair Sec as the Sovereign Stir its crest iir -ciis The mists dispersed-no longer gloom prevails So shall course dear Frccuuni through tlie west Rff prove to gladden tlie So ih-ill blest in every clime Be found victorious on tlic scroll of Time,1818,"THE STAR OF FREEDOM Majestic moving through the western skies, See the glad harbinger of Freedom rise. Unlike the Meteor's transient flash of light, Its beams are steady, and its splendours bright; Through exhalations dim its tracks its way, For nought impedes the passage of its ray; But bursting from its hazy couch below, Behold its cheering fires through aether glow. In vain the noxious vapours, spreading wide, Would wrap in gloom, and all its glories hide; In vain they mount to reach its lucid flame, In vain to quench its lustre will they aim; For where the aspiring pestilential air Would shroud in darkness all its radiance fair; See as the Sovereign Star its crest unveils, The mist's dispersed–no longer gloom prevails. So shall thy course dear Freedom through the west, Restless prove to gladden the oppres'd; So shall thy blest career in every clime Be found victorious on the scroll of Time.",article,34.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486455994/,1 December 25 WP Lrp leave to decline in scrl any of llic contradictory wit us ortant proceed inps at Linton -VVcfhall insert ihe statement the rate nt Dundre in our next Ve do nut think tl re liv id of any consequence whole arc ii Hl rni -Hritannicus will be td tlie Oftice if rc -M it not tn ay any on the ul jt ft 1 proceed in RS -A Citizen will from llic inf-c-r tion of Mr Juhn lono ti IfUrr we aro as fi he if to ini 1 Tyknitl vc tli on Lilia occa-inn tlie error was not intentional on our part any mon than on of uur,1819,"EDINBURGH, SATURDAY, December 25 We beg leave to decline inserting any of the contradictory statements sent us respecting the unimportant proceedings at Linton.–We shall insert the statement respecting the rate of wages at Dundee in our next.–We do not think  that the resolution suggested by Candidus is of any consequence; the whole proceedings are absurd, and only calculated to spread unnecessary alarm.–Britannicus will be sent to the Office if requested.–We thought it better not to say any thing on the subject of the Pittenweem proceedings.–A Citizen will observe, from the inser-tion of Mr Johnstone's letter, that we are as anxious as he is to correct instate-ments of every kind; and we need scarcely add, that on this occasion the error was not intention on our part, any  more than on that of our informant.",other,35.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486455909/,NECESSITY OF ADOPTING SOME MEASURES FOR RELIEVING THE DISTRESSES OF THE LABOUR- ING CLASSES Did gentlemen think that it was only by dint of law and military force-thai they could restore strength and and soundness to their convulsed country He hoped not was loo monstrous proposition to be seriously entertained for moment They were now receiving complaints from different parts of the kingdom not of imaginary miseries or fictitious evils they wore receiving petitions not for absurd theories of representation or wild changes in the constitution but complaints of actual misery and that too of the very worst nature-of starvation It was dreadful slate of society to live under and would become still more so if some relief were nol Granted 3 fr Ticrncy Speech ISA Secemlicr 1819,1819,"NECESSITY OF ADOPTING SOME MEASURES FOR RELIEVING THE DISTRESSES OF THE LABOUR-ING CLASSES. Did gentlemen think that it was only by dint of law and a military force that they could restore strength, and health, and soundness, to their convulsed country? He hoped not. It was too monstrous a proposition to be seriously entertained for a moment. They were now receiving complaints from different parts of the kingdom, not of imaginary miseries or fictitious evils ; they were receiving peti-tions, not for absurd theories of representation, or wild changes in the constitution ; but complaints of actual misery, and that, too, of the very worst nature–of starvation. It was a dreadful state of society to live under, and would become still more so, if some relief were not granted. Mr Tierney's Speech, 16th December 1819.",front_page,36.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486400451/,IMPERIAL PARLIAMENT HOUSE OF COMMONS IG WINKS Sir WK till lli lit Hnn tlie of tlie Ex liLi iii ill IHB In put iii ui lini It ly nnn lll it 111 un to ilir on Ui ilLe ol lir 1 rL il in cini-Miniptlnil iii- K- ikv nl ici ilk in In ilor ril il wiis llif ir oii il lc It IIdii nm in iln -I ir itii Ir li line 1 1 uii lli itit 1 liu iiAM iil ihe inn if ir 1 ii tli il SIL was in iir irr iit lo ivr 1 kc in satr No iln ikc 111 Kuliinit iu ii willi ll it nnl lli lilt Uovrnnm-lit tli il be nn il ill inr- 1 AM 1 ini ril if iit lo Sl IJ lll ll lt 1 il Ur ri ul Ci ll,1819,"IMPERIAL PARLIAMENT HOUSE OF COMMONS. Thursday, December 16. WINES. Sir C MONCK, seeing the Right Hon. the Chancellor of the Ex-chequer in his place, wished to put a question to him. It was strong-ly rumoured that the duties on French wines were to be lowered ; the consequences of this would be, that a great diminution in the con-sumption of Portuguese wines would take place. The dealers in Portuguese wines wished to be informed, as early as possible, if such was the intention of the Right Hon. Gentleman, and of the particu-lar determination to which he had come to on that point? The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER, as we understood him, stated that he was not prepared, at present, to give a decisive answer. No alteration, however, could take place in this  matter without a previous negotiation with the Portuguese Government, and an arrangement with the French Government, so that sufficient notice would be had of any change, should it be in contemplation. GRAMPOUND. Lord J. ",front_page,37.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486400511/,ARMED ASSOCIATIONS TO THE OF TUK SIR -I hope you will be able to spare me little space lo sa 11 few words about that extraordinary bustle of military,1819,"ARMED ASSOCIATIONS TO THE EDITOR OF THE SCOTSMAN. SIR,–I hope you will be able to spare me a little space to say a few words about that extraordinary bustle of military prepara-",letter_to_editor,38.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486517745/,VOCAL MELODIES OF SCOTLAND Tim day price Ss By NATHANIEL GOW SON No GO Prince Street Purt IL of lie VOCAL MELODIES OF SCOTLAND 1 st has In-en received with so much Ciinbisling Cim Oi Pom-All Si ow Atlis arranged frr tin Puino Forte or Harp Violin nnd Violoncello By NATHANIEL GOW Part 1 to li xl price 8 This nion does not in the degree interfere wi ny uf Niel Gov Sun- former works Ao to by had us above publi- Paris 11 ot lle Bc Niel Gow Selection from the 1 5 il Cnlltciion-i Price 8 cadi II Nic ow Suns nil ry Prices HI Tiir Kiivnurite new Tunes as danced to the 1 st Set of Qii in 1 SI rici 3 IV The IIi Laddie wilh the Originil Jacobite Words Prira Is Uil Tlie Lament of Flora an original and favourite JoiiIiitr Sun Pi ice Is Gd VI Tlie HorilcrG irl infl No 1 nine new Songs Slieplierd Prici 3- -Ari Liilicc the Pof ry I-T itic Klliitk -l Dll THOMSON ON THE 01 This day is in one vol 8 vo price lds 6 ii boards ACCOCJNi OV THE EPIDEMIC Asithiisl uel in Kdinl iir and other purls ol Seotlitili witli the of Cbickan Pox rind iu -SnBiill Pox iii-n Leucr to Sr Jailw UriTur Uirecibr -Geiierit ol llie Army Medie il Dep Apptiidui of aut Docu munis to tKo JOH TH OM SOK IM It Surgeon to the Forces Rspiiis Pr or Milftary Surgery In the Ut iversity of iir Andrews Street -E and List to be had of franch German received by David Brown Edinburgh Prinlcdfaf DAVIO BnwN St HURST EES Owl and BROWN London Just anti It Periodical Works for which,1819,"DR THOMSON ON THE VARIOLOID EPIDEMIC. This day is published, in one vol. 8vo, price 10s. 6d. boards, AN ACCOUNT OF THE VARIOLOID EPIDEMIC, As it has lately prevailed in Edinburgh and other parts of Scotland, with observations on the identity of Chicken Pox and modified Small Pox, in a Letter to Sir James M Gregor, Director General of the Army Medical Department, with an Appendix of important Docu-ments relative to the subject. By JOHN THOMSON, M.D. F.R.S.E. Surgeon to the Forces, Regius Professor of Military Surgery in the University of Edinburgh, &c. Edinburgh: Printed for DAVID BROWN, St Andrew's Street, E-dinburgh, and LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, and BROWN, Lon-don. Just published a List (to be had gratis) of French, German, and Italian Periodical Works, for which subscriptions are received by David Brown.",display_ad,39.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486478833/,Alexander Ilaird in Inverkiillhing 1 tiring Wlion mason and Gl su Atllnir 111 1 Cl rk in Iortpatnck hr Ihr PnOlHTr tv Abci-M iil lfl,1819,"SEQUESTRATIONS Alexander Baird, merchant in Inverkeithing. Thomas Wilson, mason and builder, Glasgow. Arthur Hill Clark, innkeeper in Portpatrick. Printed for the PROPRIETERS, by Abernethy & Walker",article,40.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486456572/,Tins day wM Eytf MotBwndMiM-E Price 18 -DECISIONS OF Collected by WILSON TAIT 11 THE FIRST AND SECOND DIVI- SIO-NS OF THE COURT OF SESSION From November 1 17 to November 1818 ROLL 0 and FLET CIIElt Advocates by appointment of tho Faculty of Advocates As abov mav niso be had DECISIONS of die and SECOND DIVISIONS of tie CO RT from November 1810 to Novem her 1 11 Second price 10 sewed and from November 1811 lo Niivainher Slii Wlid Pnce ls 6 sewed -In 1 the parts being of llie Faculty PeclsionB froin tlie Divmon of the Ciiirt roily now be had with 6 ISOS,1819,"This day was published, By MANNERS and MILLES, Price 18s. DECISIONS OF THE FIRST AND SECOND DIVI-SIONS OF THE COURT OF SESSION, From November 1817 to November 1818. Collected by J. WILSON, G. TAIT, R. ROLLO, and M. A. FLET-CHER, Esquires, Advocates; by appointment of the Faculty of Advocates. As above may also be had, DECISIONS of the FIRST and SECOND DIVISIONS of the COURT of SESSION, from November 1810 to Novem-ber 1811. Second edition. Price L1, 10s. sewed; and from No-vember 1811 to November 1812. Second edition. Price L.1, 11s. 6d, sewed. N. B.–In consequence of the above parts being ""reprinted,"" complete sets of the ""Faculty Decisions,"" from the Division of the Court, may now be had, commencing with November 1808.",display_ad,41.png
https://www.proquest.com/docview/486475934/?sourcetype=Historical%20Newspapers,SEQUESTIlATlONS James -dealer Boghouse Lanark-shire Jauicsi Crawftrn ii eaw JohnAnder ori Co iae 8 Gra gow 8 iiic 88 Gl gow under Hie firm of Unil Hcrr anil Co and Giliralter that ot Kerr lA Tliunmi Aradid at Stock Bridge near Edilibureli FrilltetKorth iy 01 lo Publiahcd Soict all il Paper received by Newion Cd NO JohnstonitCo Nil li Bookscllerii IU SaltBiarkct 1 Ai Sa when delivered in 8 recio the ldv uicc Haltycaranuquarttr mpf 01 iy by tACT ie by every tur outh- ideo sem--Ad ent or or Warwitk Squale Lane Ncwmte Street Lohaori 0 Sack Street Uubllrii gaw fl 1 Price country 2 when called for Xnd Si 1 the Country may lit acci with oro rc ir diii 6,1820,"SEQUESTRATIONS. James Milligan, cattle dealer, Boghouse, Lanarkshire. James and Andw. Crawford, merchants, Glasgow. John Anderson & Co., merchants, Glasgow. The Company carrying on business in Glasgow under the firm of Lamb, Kerr, and Co., and a Gibralter under that of Kerr, Lamg, and Co. Thomas Arnold, builder at Stock Bridge, near Edinburgh. Printed for the PROPRIETORS, by Abernethy & Walker, Old Bank Close, and Published by them every Saturday at No. 166, south side of the High Street where all communications (post paid) may be sent–-Advertisements or or-ders for this Paper, received by Newton & Co. NO. 5. Warwick Square, War-wick Lane, Newgate Street, London; J.K. Johnston & Co. NO. 10 Lower Sackville Street, Dublin; and D. Forrester, Booksellers, 10 Saltmarket, Glas-gow. Price £2 5s. when delivered in town, or sent post free to the country; £2 5 when called for; and £2 2s, if paid in advance. Half year and quarter year in pre-portion. N.B.–It is requested, that orders sent from the Country may be accompanied either with a remittance, or a reference to some person in Edinburgh.",other,42.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482074103/,_bis _day 1 published 2 _volt _Bvo _25 a _bouda THE _COMEDIES OF _ARISTOPHANES ByT MITCHELL A W Late _fellow of Sydney Suuex College _Cambridge Printed for JOUK MU&HAY Albemarle _Street London The volumeii are _fold _separately,1823,"This day is published, 2 vols. 8 vo. 25s. boards, THE COMEDIES OF ARISTOPHANES. By T. MITCHELL, A.M. Late fellow of Sydney Sussex College, Cambridge. Printed for JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street, London. The volumes are sold separately.",classified_ad,43.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482074058/,Thursday Friday and Saturday were _holidays at the Bank,1823,"Thursday, Friday, and Saturday were holidays at the Bank.",other,44.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482073974/,i _&J S _u _ik _Ju _uWJ _jjUUjBHMRB _LiMi i _Sfimfl 1 i Jti _Smart s Thwtie Street Rooms V _-W _rR-WAI-KER _Bliio MspcetfuUy _announces the THIRD _JVL _i _LECTURE of his Couroe _-forThursday and FOURTH _on _3 _Murday _Bt _one _Bnd _7 _intheev _enine _7 _l _Tennss-Ten _transferable _tIclcetsiOne Guinea one _admit- tinc totheEidouranion _single dittb 28 6 d i to _be-had and a _Prospectus _gratis at MessraManner 3 and lliller _High Street und of Air ItobertaoniBIusic _Shop Princes _Sireet Each Leiiture _of-the _Course 1 _hourJ i,1823,"EIDOURANION In Smart's Thistle Street Rooms. MR WALKER also respectfully announces the THIRD LECTURE of his Course, for Thursday, and FOURTH on Saturday, at one, and 7 in the evening. Terms:–Ten transferable tickets, One Guinea; (one admit-ting to the Eidouranion) single ditto, 2s. 6d. To be held, and a Prospectus gratis, at Messrs Manners and Miller, High Street; and of Mr Robertson, Music Shop, Prince's Street.–Each lecture of the course 1 1¼ hour.",classified_ad,45.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482073917/,COURT OF _SESSION PALACE Of HOLVU OOU-l lt _lYlLEOBor _SAXCTtrART The _following important _cme _WM lately deemed _In the _Court 01 Session i r _A-family of _distinction _resitted for _tome _tune within thepahc ot Holyrood and _afterwards _tiiiving _gone _to Kngtind a creditor on a decreet obtained _against them _railed diligence _and _charged _tlieiii _onanmilwKC IhSdays which run _betwixt the citation ot a _deisuder and the day of _umpcarance in _ths action of _six d y to _pay _-a certain debt Under pain of poinding on the expiration ot tlie _six _days The creditor under _sanction of the Uailie oftlui Abbey _attempted B _poinding of lii _i debtor _itWecu within the paU e At alnst this proceeding a bill of _suspension w s nresenteil tottic Co urt of _Session _complaining 1 st That _as tlie Noble _coinplainer _wasfurth of Sicotland the charge _ought to _have been on an _ifiducw of _sixty _daysi 2 _dThutit _was illegal to _execute a _pomduig within the sanctuary and 3 d It _WM partlcuUrly unlawful to do so _With _in the _Koyuf Palace _On _considering _the blU the Lord Ordinary _refused it to the effect that _the _respondent _credllorl may execute hia _poinding _reserving ttll _objections to _its _valfdity _The suspender _petitioned the _Court _against _thatjudgment wniie _uiia _olu which _petition was _ordered to be answered anu was current liecreditor _endeavouredto _carry _through _a- newpolnd _Ing upon a charge iSf _t&ty days _wKeteuiian _a _second _bUlOt sua pension was prcsentcd _fOTthenobleIArd _und also a bill of _suipension _Ity the _Officem oi Sstale _coiUplalnintf _of _thftpoinding within the Palace _both of lhe se bills the -Lord Ordinary retused _against which iliterlocu _arthe nobleL 6 rd and the Otticera of btate coiriplairiera petitioned helririer HpUs e,1823,"COURT OF SESSION. PALACE OF HOLYROOD–PRIVILEGE OF SANCTUARY. The following important case was lately decided in the Court of Session: A family of distinction resided for some time within the palace of Holyrood, and afterwards having gone to England, a creditor, on a decreet obtained against them, raised diligence, and charged them, on an induciæ (the days which run betwixt the citation of a defen-der and the day of compearance in the action) of six days, to pay a certain debt, under pain of poinding on the expiration of the six days. The creditor, under sanction of the Bailie of the Abbey, attempting a poinding of his debtor's effects within the palace. A-gainst this proceeding a bill of suspension was presented to the Court of Session, complaining, 1st, That as the Noble complainer was furth of Scotland, the charge ought to have been on an induciar of sixty days; 2d, That it was illegal to execute a poinding within the sanctuary; and 3d, It was particularly unlawful to do so with-in the Royal Palace. On considering the bill, the Lord Ordinary refused it, ""to the effect that the respondent (creditor) may execute his poinding, re-serving all objections to its validity."" The suspender petitioned the Court against that judgment; which petition was ordered to be answered, and, while this order was current, the creditor endeavoured to carry through a new poind-ing upon a charge of sixty days; whereupon a second bill of sus-pension was presented for the noble Lord, and also a bill of sus-pension by the Officers of State, complaining of the poinding with-in the Palace; both of these bills the Lord Ordinary refused; against which interlocutor the noble Lord and the Officers of State, complainers, petitioned the Inne-r House.",article,46.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482068714/,THE I U DS _SAyunnAY _Therehas-been _so much _speculation in the funds to-day hi the _immediate vicinityof the _StockExchange _iriprivateAargains that _it has been a subject of-gcneral _regreMlmt tIie _iitock-marke was noti kept _open The _prevalence-bf _purchasers _was 80 _yeat- as to leadto an advance in _Consols for _account from 86 _lij to 866 T _he peech _of the _President ofthe United _States on _the bpening 6 CengressseBins tohave been the _chiefcause oC _this _change _rl&iiiurged thiifaince AeJlepubUchas intimated aainte _tjon tq sun iqrt the S o utK -Ai e rrcan province a _in _t _feir _lri _3 _e _en _Ience _tn _Qre _i _3 _lnu _cllIe _8 _spTObabili- ty of this countcy being en broiled w i tK tliel Powers of the Continent as _under such _circumstances they _wouldnot yentuie to assist _Spain in _her endeavours to regain _her ascendancy over hertbnnci _possessions Up 1 I four o clock tli _i _afternoon the _highest quotations of the day were fully maintained and it _is expected that the funds will be higher on _Monday r i i,1823,"THE FUNDS. SATURDAY. There has been so much speculation in the funds to-day in the immediate vicinity of the Stock Exchange in private bargains, that it has been a subject of general regret that the stock market was not kept open. The prevalence of purchasers was so great as to lead to an advance in Consols for account from 86½ to 86¾. The Speech of the President of the United States on the opening of Congress seems to have been the chief cause of this change. It is urged, that since the Republic has intimated an intention to support the South Ame-rican provinces in their independence, there is much less probabili-ty of this country being embroiled with the Powers of the Conti-nent, as under such circumstances they would not venture to assist Spain in her endeavours to regain her ascendancy over her former possessions. Up to four o'clock this afternoon the highest quota-tions of the day were fully maintained, and it is expected that the funds will be higher on Monday.",article,47.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482068462/,_KabnI _SiittHiaeiifi _W _HAST INDIA _SHIPPING I Thu Timiindra _IVrav ha amved in the Thames from _BengaL _The _yarne bound to Bengal _was spoken with on the 3 d August i _rfn _lat 10 S long 85 E by the Scbtin _arrjiYed at _tlje Cape ofiGood top e i 3 _iindthe Montoouth ftoinLo tidon to the Cape of Good f Hope on die 1 st ult lat 3 long _24 by the _tVtStmorland _Women arrived _at _Liverpool The _Buckinghamshire GIasspoole from _London to China aa _spoken _with on the 9 th September _lat 17 S long 27 W On the I 2 th _September the schooner Fox of Baltimore _was _wrecked while _prosecuting her voyage between _Rotterdam and St Thomas The _crew _remained on the rigging of the vessel six days and six nighu They were hardly fixed _ift _this situation before they were _visited by _stiarks which _followed _them until the leventh _day when _they succeeded in hanging one _alongiide by a bowline after which _the others _disappeared They were at length _relieved by a French _brig named the Mincrve _CASTI EBAII Decr _W _We have just heard tliat considerable alarm is entertained for the safety of two sloops of war which _were _ceeil in distrea _toffiithe northern coast of this county on the l 4 th _instant Some _bodies have been driven _ashore and _it is _feared the _vesaeli _went down one _having 146 and _tha other US hands on board The riamtsofboth oftnemliave becri mentioned to us but in the preseni _uncertainty we do not _think it _right _-to _state them The most _melancholy loss of fourteen of _the Water Guards off _the _coast ofBrosdhaven of which indeed we had _information some days has also _been _ago jiist _confirmed to us _AUERDEEN Dec -24 0 n _Saturdaylast _it blew a hard gale of wind from _ysi to _SH _when several vessels _were driven to the northward Thirteen _vessels bound to the northward took shelter in Holy _Inland but a brig _lie _Francis of and from Yarmouth to Lcith with grain _in attempting to get out of the harbour _was _driven ashore on the point near the entrance The crew _was savedbut the vessel _losi her keel arid _was so much damaged In the bottom as to render it necessary _to unload the cargo which was put _on board the schooner Swift _of Stonehnven to _Le _carried to the port of destination,1823,"Hope, on the 1st ult. lat. 2. long. 24. by the Westmorland, Warner arrived at Liverpool. The Buckinghamshire, Glasspoole, from London to China, was spoken with on the 9th September. lat. 17 S. long. 27 W. On the 12th September the schooner Fox, of Baltimore, was wrecked while prosecuting her voyage between Rotterdam and St Thomas. The crew remained on the rigging of the vessel six days and six nights. They were hardly fixed in this situation before they were visited by sharks, which followed them until the seventh day, when they succeeded in hanging one alongside by a bowline, after which the others disappeared. They were at length relieved by a French brig named the Alinerve. CASTLEBAR, Dec 22.–We have just heard that considerable alarm is entertained for the safety of two sloops of war which were seen in distress off the northern coast of this county, on the 14th instance. Some bodies have been driven ashore, and it is feared the vessels went down, one having 145, and the other 115 hands on board. The names of both of them have been mentioned to us, but in the present uncertainty we do not think it right to state them. The most melancholy loss of fourteen of the Water Guards off the coast of Broadhaven, of which indeed we had information some days ago, has also been just confirmed to us. ABERDEEN, Dec.–24–On Saturday last it blew a hard gale of wind from SSE. to SE. when several vessels were driven to the northward. Thirteen vessels, bound to the northward, took shelter in Holy Island; but a brig, the Francis, of and from the Yarmouth to Leith, with grain, in attempting to get out of the harbour, was dri-ven ashore on the point near the entrance. The crew was saved–but the vessel lost her keel, and was so much damaged in the bot-tom as to render it necessary to unload the cargo, which was put on board the schooner Swift of Stonehaven, to be carried to the port of destination.",article,48.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482063195/,_HOUSE IN CHARLOTTE _SQUARE _i TOSELLORLET r i Furnished of _Unfttrnishefl 1 rpHAT HOUSE No 27 CHARLOTTE _SQUARE to Jl bell with or without the _Furniture The House and _tix t s are _very complete and the whole house _has been latcl y paitt ed l he Furniture is yery _elegant _anil neariy new apd In eyn respect _much _luperior to _what is _generally _met with The _litBil tion _i _weU known to be one oithe tirst in Edinburgh 1 and B nicii desirable town residence is _seldom to be had If not Sold theHouse will be LetrurnishedorUnfurni hriliit a series of _years and immediate possession will be _given _p _Apply to _Messrs Lamb and Son _Upholsterers HOUSE IN SURGEONS SQUARE To be SOLD _bypublic roup within the Royal Exchange Cbffe _t house Edinburgh on Wednesday the 14 th day of _January _aeil tf not _previously _dtiwsed _of ty _wivatc _bargain nnHAT _DWELLfN G-HOUyE in _Surgeons Square whid JL belonged to the late Mrs Ann Sharp and recently occupM by Doctor hmith _deceased-consisting i 0 f three Stories _andte reis From its vicinity to the _CoUege and _High-School as wellB to most of the Medical Class Booms this _House is particulari weh adapted eithcr for a Eamil y taking Boarders or for a Lectura on _any of the _branches of Medicine For _particulnrs apply to _.-Joseph Gordon W S 2 i Loi ill B Street who is possessed of the lidc-deeds,1823,"HOUSE IN CHARLOTTE SQUARE TO SELL OR LET, Furnished or Unfurnished. THAT HOUSE, No. 27, CHARLOTTE SQUARE, to Sell, with or without the Furniture. The House and Fix-tures are very complete, and the whole house has been lately paint-ed. The Furniture is very elegant, and nearly new, and in every respect much superior to what is generally met with. The situa-tion is well known to be one of the first in Edinburgh, and a more desirable town residence is seldom to be had. If not Sold, the House will be Let Furnished or Unfurnished for a series of years, and immediate possession will be given. Apply to Messrs Lamb and Son, Upholsterers. HOUSE IN SURGERONS' SQUARE. To be SOLD by public roup, within the Royal Exchange Coffee-house, Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 14th day of January next, if not previously disposed of by private bargain. THAT DWELLING-HOUSE in Surgeons' Square, which belonged to the late Mrs Ann Sharp, and recently occupied by Doctor Smith, deceased–consisting of three Stories and Gar-rets. From its vicinity to the College and High School, as well as to most of the Medical Class Rooms, this House is particularly well adapted either for a Family taking Boarders, or for a Lecturer on any of the branches of Medicine. For particulars, apply to Joseph Gordon, W.S., 26, London Street, who is possessed of the title-deeds.
",classified_ad,49.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482063096/,_JFpreign _SntelUgencc 11 _L _1 i _lril PRANCE _T 1 V K I I f _Prow rt _wi _tc h r _ofrAHA&u _iDM _sAr _11 _QFHCIALJART _Ordonnanceof _theiKing L puu _byUie grac e cf -O pd _Ktne of Prance andNayarre _To aU to whom _these pr entr ia 4 _K _SSA I _A i,1823,"Foreign Intelligence. FRANCE. (From the Moniteur of Thursday, Dec. 25.) OFFICIAL PART. Ordonnance of the King Louis, by the grace of God, King of France and Navarre. To all to whom these presents shall come, greeting. Considering art. 50 of the Constitutional charger–con-sidering the laws of 5th February 1817; 25th March, 1818; 29t June, 1820–considering our ordonnances of 4th September and 11th October 1820, on the report of our minister, Secretary of State.",front_page,50.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/481972081/,_Set off ftom the _Union _Hold the _aoDoUritite Bardn Sir Peter Aluiray acd _qn JHi s J Uurr ys _JohnBloomfield Es j Arrival _-Lord CmerBaron t ir 8 _amud Shepherd K 1 s _Colonel _flasung j The AIid Lqthta 4 fqi _hpund 3 nect thia _day _at _JJbng Nrddry Dean _s and oa _Bturday-at Whittirigham The _.-Pitt CIpni _ofawtlttitl at a _flieatiDyneld dn Priday votea two hundred _guuieA _frpin their _frndr _towanis the erection of _the _pionuipcnl _pronpsed tq _.-beT ised _to h _niembrybftheu- late hignly _refpe _ctcd Jt reBidlait the l arl of Hopetcun Indlvidua _itiili criptiona were _alw iade _At the inie tlri br vatioUa _fceniben of the _Club r 1 1 _i _i _1 _.-ye _terday _tflB _4 _ua _l _terg _oaf _o _3 _e _ot _e _e _1 _lri _y _4 _tia 10 d and _inffiB auburb sof the cily _atO d _-JHullby _JtiiBlineBs _tiiaU _ukBofyork plea _sea _4 o _appomt UtThcdaore ordbnPhysicianE _xfc to _hu houaehbid _n u _ii _i On Aroriday ev ning a thicf contrive l _tp _cut-out a _paneof gla s ftom a shop window la the terrace and to carry off a quantity Of _nrannes-. -The-slionkoimpr- -whn W B .-i l _n i _lr i i o- w- M _ua a _auvy _IICUTU u scrBpufg ri 6 isc C nd oli _ll t epping out o iKe _floor he saw the thief mfilarig ofl Bithhis 690 tyi i _j We a re happy to lesrn hat _WUgoiit 6 _ffniifon _W brks _are to be 4- gain set _agoing m the ring and a _tlie iiby almost _deserted vil-. _laye will be _again _enlivened withinijabitants and _buslneisi On aunday _lligtijt u fcie jipy _abduffour year of age in _his father s hpuse in tli& La wn market liaving gone toq near tile grate the fire _caiigtjt _Jiold ot h s pinatore whict in _ttantly cor iiiDUMcated tp _hisclotiic _sffndiietthem in a _blaze _Notwithstanding _ali tHe exer _tions of hia _lather to _extinguish the _flames and who by _thit _mcanS waa much _burnt in the hands tho child was so _severely scorched that _he- _lillgereain- _great _ftgony _dIl _M _on _laylaorning wherihe died,1823,"Set off from the Union Hotel, the Honourable Baron Sir Peter Murray, and Hon. Miss Murrays; John Bloomfield, Esq. Arrivals–Lord Chief Baron Sir Samuel Shepherd, K.B.; Co-lonel Hasting. The Mid-Lothian fox-hounds meet this day at Long Niddry Dean; and on Saturday at Whittingham. The Pitt Club of Scotland, at a meeting held on Friday, voted two hundred guineas from their funds towards the erection of the monument, proposed to be raised to the memory of their late high-ly respected President the Earl of Hopetoun. Individual sub-scriptions were also made at the same time by various members of the Club. Yesterday the quartern loaf rose one penny, it is now selling at 10d., and in the suburbs of the city at 9d. His Royal Highness the Duke of York has been graciously pleased to appoint Dr Theodore Gordon Physician Extraordinary to his household. On Monday evening a thief contrived to cut out a pane of glass from a shop window in the terrace, and to carry off a quantity of oranges. The shopkeeper, who was in the back shop, heard a scraping noise, and on stepping out to the door he saw the thief making off with his booty. We are happy to learn that Wilsontown Iron Works are to be a-gain set agoing in the spring; and that the now almost deserted vil-lage will be again enlivened with inhabitants and business. On Sunday night a fine boy, about four years of age, in his father's house in the Lawnmarket, having gone too near the grate, the fire caught hold of his pinafore, which instantly communicated to his clothes and set them in a blaze. Notwithstanding all the exertions of his father to extinguish the flames, and who, by that means, was much burnt in the hands, the child was so severely scorched that he lingered in great agony till Monday morning, when he died.",article,51.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/481972310/,_SPIRIT TRADE OF IRELAND AND SCOTLAND -EFFECTS OF THE LATE REDUCTION OF DUTIES,1823,SPIRIT TRADE OF IRELAND AND SCOTLAND–EFFECTS OF THE LATE REDUCTION OF DUTIES.,other,52.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482087880/,_SPLENDID LIBRARY OF BOOKS BOOKS OF PRINTS AND ENGRAVINGS To be _sold by Auction without _reserve by Mr Collins at No _88 Pnnce a Street on Friday January 2 1824 _and &UoiriDi da of _business r _j HE _superb _and valuable Collection of Book Book of Print JL _and _Engraving _comprising the Works of the mo t ClaisS and Popular _authors in every branch of _Literature maata _lystrated at _an _immense expense with _Engiavingg by the _nr t _tints and cliiefl y in the moat _costly binding of Morocco Rimia _Ai Amongst them are-TheStaffordGallery 4 vol Houghton GaUery 2 vola Contenipo ui M _innaii _3 _vuiuarountt _mcDuy niBiuryoi anaUeorgia 2 voli _faho _Encyclopaidia _Britannica _ZOvols 0 rHe g AnUquiuM _ct England and _Wales Military Antiquities 2 vols _Bonaparte _Campaign in Italy Thornton s _Magnificent _Botanical Woila 3 vols folio _Ackermano s Oxford Cambridge and Public Schooir Roscoc s Life of _Leo the _tenth 4 _vols large paper _Robnon _s _CiTain pian Mountains Sir Walter Scot _s Worka 28 _jvols i Bowyei Hume 10 _vols folio Morocco a splendid copy arid the WtAi of _Byron Hume _Smollet _Sterne Johnson Fielding _RobertiM _A _Sm t Gibbon _Shakspeare Ersklne Newton _POM Rollin Blair Milton _Romaine &c &c &c To be _viewed and _Catalogues had of the _Auctioneer on the iiie nii es the day _previous and _mornings ef _Sale Sale to commence each day at 12 o clock _precisely,1823,"SPLENDID LIBRARY OF BOOKS, BOOKS OF PRINTS, AND ENGRAVINGS. To be sold by Auction, without reserve, by Mr Collins, at No. 88, Prince's Street, on Friday, January 2, 1824, and following days of business, THE superb and valuable Collection of Books, Books of Prints, and Engravings, comprising the Works of the most Classic and Popular authors, in every branch of Literature, many il-lustrated at an immense expense, with Engravings by the first ar-tists, and chiefly in the most costly bindings of Morocco, Russia, &c. Amongst them are–The Stafford Gallery, 4 vols., Houghton Gallery, 2 vols., Contempo-rary Portraits, 2 vols. Catesby History of Carolina and Georgia, 2 vols. folio; Encyclopaedia Britannica, 20 vols.; Grose's Antiquities of England and Wales; Military Antiquities, 2 vols.; Bonaparte's Campaigns in Italy; Thornton's Magnificent Botanical Works, 3 vols., folio; Ackermann's Oxford, Cambridge, and Public Schools; Roscoe's Life of Leo the tenth, 4 vols. large paper; Robson's Gram-pian Mountains; Sir Walter Scot's Works, 28 vols.; Bowyer's of Byron, Hume, Smollet, Sterne, Johnson, Fielding, Robertson, Hogarth, Smith, Gibbon, Erskine, Newton, Pope, Rollin, Blair, Milton, Romaine, &c. &c. &c. To be viewed, and Catalogues had of the Auctioneer, on the pre-mises, the day previous, and mornings of Sale. Sale to commence each day at 12 o'clock precisely.",classified_ad,53.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482087447/,FARMS IN _PEEBLES-SHIRE _HpO BE LET for such _a Term of Years as _may be agreed on _fl- thefollowirisFarms on _theEstate of Whitebaroiiy 1 _-THE FAR vr 01 _-LOKfGCOT possessed Adam Brydon containing 1022 Acres or thereby -about IM Acres _of which _BIB Arabic with an _Excellent _Steading 1 2 THE FARM _OF- MILKIESTON possessed by James Purdie _containing 534 Acres orthereby about 215 _Acres of-which are Arable A New Steading is to be built for this _farm 3 BURNHAUGH possEsse iL by the Reverend MrBoberison containing from 9 to 10 Acres of which upwards of 7 Acres are Arable 4 BURNFOOT and _paAoftWINDYLAWS _possessed by Mrs Paterson containing 104 Acres or thereby 76 Acres of which are Arable These FArms will be let _according to their present divisions or by any other allotment that may be thought more convenient -The Entry to be at Whitsunday next to the Houses and _Pasture and at the Separation of the Crop of 1824 to the Arabic _Lands The _present Tenants will shew the _Lands _and-point out the Boundaries- and _further Particulars may be _learned by application to Gibspri Christie and Wardlaw North StAndrews _Street _Edinburgh _-to whom OB ers in writing may _be given in _I 7 St Andrew s Street 27 th November 1823,1823,"FARMS IN PEEBLES-SHIRE. TO BE LET, for such a Term of Years as may be agreed on, to the following Farms on the Estate of Whitebarony: 1. THE FARM OF LONGCOT, possessed by Adam Brydon, contained 1022 Acres, or thereby, about 144 Acres of which are Arable, with an Excellent Steading. 2. THE FARM OF MILKIESTON, possessed by James Purdie, contained 534 Acres, or thereby, about 215 Acres of which are Arable. A New Steading is to be built for this farm. 3. BURNHAUGH, possessed by the Reverend Mr Robert-son, containing from 9 to 10 Acres, of which upwards of 7 Acres are Arable. 4. BURNFOOT, and part of WINDYLAWS, possessed by Mrs Paterson, containing 104 Acres, or thereby, 76 Acres of which are Arable. These Farms will be let according to their present divisions, or by any other allotment that may be thought more convenient. The Entry to be at Whitsunday next to the Houses and Pasture, and at the Separation of the Crop of 1824 to the Arable Lands. The pre-sent Tenants will shew the Lands, and point out the Boundaries–and further Particulars may be learned by application to Gibson, Christie, and Wardlaw, North St Andrew's Street, Edinburgh, to whom Offers in writing may be given in. 7, St Andrew's Street, 27th November 1823.",classified_ad,54.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482081911/,This day 3 _vols small Uvo 21 ADVENTURES OF HAJJI BABA Printed for _JOHK _MUUUAY Albemarle Street _London,1823,"This day, 3 vols. small 8vo., 21s. ADVENTURES OF HAJJI BABA. Printed for JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street, London",other,55.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486389599/,FRENCH LANGUAGE ADAME DE WINTER CONVERSA ZION 1 will open on Wednesday January Each class limited to twelve 1 PLACE,1820,FRENCH LANGUAGE MADAME DE BELLEOUR'S WINTER CONVERSA-ZIONI will open on Wednesday the 3d January. Each class limited to twelve. 71. YORK PLACE.,display_ad,56.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486434259/,rpH-E SUNDAY SCHOOL TEACHERS MAGAZINE JL Mommy Gd each Numbrr beginning with lanuary 1 ISil Tilis work consists of Essays on Suiiday School topics nnd educe tlon -Queries and Answerfl -Fiictii Alii -IlAiviyws Bnoks with Ellucation or for YuuU nce to Sunday Schools mid of Education ai anil JOURNAL of EDUCATION called the Suxiuv SCHOOL fi will bu published bro ad -Poetry -yi sold by all by IIiMlLias 5 the Booksellers,1820,"THE SUNDAY SCHOOL TEACHER'S MAGAZINE and JOURNAL of EDUCATION, formerly called the ""SUNDAY SCHOOL REPOSITORY, &c."" will be published MONTHLY at 6d. each Number, beginning with January 1, 1821. This work consists of Essays on Sunday School topics and educa-tion,–Queries and Answers,–Facts and Anecdotes,–Reviews of Books connected with Education, or for the Young,–Intelligence as to Sunday Schools, and the Progress of Education at home and a-broad,–Poetry, &c. &c. London:–Published by T. HAMILTON, 33 Paternoster ROW, sold by all the Booksellers.",display_ad,57.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486440747/,The Loyal Address now lying lit the Council- Chamber has been got up with as much mystery iis-the celebrated Milan Cuiiimiris It wai dropt upon this breathing mid like foundling of whose parentage -every 0111 or cr it is sent without the sanction of ft bingle Tiann like ft new creed to try if lli crc were any whose It would -fit Its doctrines however lind no attractions and believers enlisted so on Wednesday tast it was history We lid Ills at rotis anil rcs meeting Ilia mover or seconder-how many this f-what places nnd p- wore prevailed ui ou to stultify themselves ind get beyond the portals of tlie Council-Chamber,1820,"The Loyal Address now lying at the Council-Chamber has been got up with as much mystery as the celebrated Milan Commission. It was dropt upon this breathing world like a foundling, of whose parentage every one seemed ashamed; or rather it was sent forth without the sanction of a single name, like a new creed, to try if there were any whose understandings it would fit. Its doctrines, how-ever, had no attractions, and believers enlisted so slowly, that on Wednesday last it was thought expedient to publish a fragment of its history. We were then informed that the Address had been un-animously adopted at a numerous and respectable meeting on the preceding Thursday; but who was the mover or seconder–how many this unanimous snug party consisted of–what places and pensions they hold–and by what fatal logic they were prevailed upon to stultify themselves and their followers, are secrets too pre-cious to get beyond the portals of the Council-Chamber.",editorial_article,58.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486502784/,EDINBURGH PUBLIC MEETING was friend to public because they were of advantage in preserving freedom and hid been the means of maintaining the Constitution in energy and vigour Speechy Lord Etteitbordugh 13 1 December WQ Unices means were allowed the of upon the Govcrnmentand the Legislature by public opinion ci only te by physical force and thus foundation would be laid fur revolution Speech of Han Primrose ditto,1820,"EDINBURGH PUBLIC MEETING ""He was a friend to public meetings, because they were of advan-tage in preserving freedom, and had been the means of maintaining the Constitution in energy and vigour."" Speech of Lord Ellernborough, 22d December 1819. ""Unless means were allowed the people of acting upon the Go-vernment and the Legislature by public opinion, they could only act by physical force, and thus a foundation would be laid for a revolu-tion."" Speech of Hon. Mr Primrose, ditto.",front_page,59.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486467860/,EXIIIDIlIQy n- Hl lUS LKiM is 0 at Mr Bilucn Grua Itugcilt Bridge 11 5 ls -CataIogurf 6 1 Fc ir not dau thy King lilting on an ass cult PICTURE of I- ENTR Jnhn,1820,"EXHIBITION. MR HAYDON'S PICTURE of CHRIST'S ENTRY into JERUSALEM is NOW OPEN, at Mr BRUCK'S Great Room, Regent Bridge. Admission, 1s.–Catalogues, 6d. ""Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold thy King cometh, sitting on an ass's colt.""–St John.",display_ad,60.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486484684/,SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE ENOR SARDINA begs leave to intimate to those Ladies and-Gentlemen who are inclined to study the above cle pant nnd useful Languages as nlu to who intend the Spa Seltlemcnis thai he Ilia CLASSESon Monday the 7 th January ISas at hit Class Room in No 9 Grcensidf Place every lawful day Saturdays excepted The Pt Class from nine till eleven and nish Class ruin two till four And in order to facil thc improvement Senor dfe Hr -Cln ito Grammatical Conversation in each pn 1 Terms 2 2 ttt -Each Class consisting -Pupils 5- Privoto Teaching as No 9 Grcenside Place lt Il -r It,1821,"SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE SENOR J. M. SARDINA begs leave to intimate to those Ladies and Gentlemen who are inclined to study the above ele-gant and useful Languages, as also to those who intend visiting the Spanish and Portuguese Settlements, that he will open his PUBLIC CLASSES on Monday the 7th January 1822, at his Class-Room, in No. 9 Greenside Place, every lawful day (Saturdays excepted). The Portuguese Class from nine till eleven, A.M., and the Spa-nish Class from two till four P.M. And in order to facilitate the improvement of the Pupils, Senor J.M.S. intends devoting an hour of each Class to a Grammatical Conversation in each language on various subjects. Terms L.2, 2s per quarter–Each Class consisting of Eight Pupils. Private Teaching as usual. No. 9 Greenside Place, Dec. 2 1821.",classified_ad,61.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486484583/,TAO POB THE GRBylyS TO THE JiDlTOK OB THE SCOTSMAN Blit -l 4 4 lhe ro irit and ability th wh tl rou hare of Greece 8 in iil oolite GteekiMs no -opened in Etliuhur bug fii 3 1 which you will-hav-t Co best Tvishes ur -the cause of Cto er hl Cresrent 1 am Sir hre ro ich- gi ff tc lby of ip -bc lt 6 9 6 ce Itere ut us shall be to lli Tri aU 1 in tli -tfi in pnd th speedy or obedient Scrvanti ia 88 We 4 oe ftl creeks TIlertiiypApubliutub tln Hial tBl iwi with un Should apu blic th the tp nJ 4 il Cort dtr ft 1 oMw it tu be oil,1821,"SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE GREEKS TO THE EDITOR OF THE SCOTSMAN. Sir,–I admire the spirit and ability with which you have advo-cated the cause of the liberation of Greece; and as I understand a subscription in aid of the Greeks is now opened in Edinburgh, I beg leave to inclose TEN POUNDS, which you will have the goodness to give to the Treasurer, with thy best wishes for the cause of liberty in Greece, and the speedy triumph of the Cross over the Crescent. I am, sir, your obedient Servant, J.M.N. 18th Dec. 1821. –– We are much gratified by our Correspondent's favourable opinion of our exertions in behalf of the Greeks. There is no public sub-scription yet opened here; but the moment that takes place, the money deposited with us shall be paid over to the Treasurer. Should a pu-blic subscription not be attempted in Edinburgh, we shall remit the money to London, unless our Correspondent shall order it to be otherwise disposed of.",letter_to_editor,62.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486484371/,it iti average be struck for each period of four years it will shew progressive increase but the supply for the last year in mutton ex any former year numerically by lp 3 COO kca,1821,"If the average be struck for each period of four years, it will shew in progressive increase; but the supply for the last year in mutton ex-ceeds that of any former year (numerically) by 133,000 head.",article,63.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486455123/,REpoB Tof the Gomuussionerswi to Courts of Justice in ScotIahd This Report has how been Hntedhy -orae Hotisa of Coinmdns to icc ti Peace CoWrtA and Qfiiriportanf matter but while if is power to exa- 1 at to the AmsWaSWi -B eW ct which is --Appendis Mtfny lib alteration suggested are- hut ally in th um which may icc We sI ej ur Sbc rSa cx- pfh se oftHe proL- the Small Dcbt Kdi av Ju Ige yn yff iis wesh ll silV tV 3 Torin fh Courts ot Consci ter to tasi lpli ana th 6 bc Col rt in Couifty sUat tl tr WW Ki must great Attllb ot Institution ve rst nd li 1 11 wirl df- -l Ke wo to ie ri to be th tt ml- of- their nro is 6 pcr Alfn fa ert,1821,"NINTH REPORT of the Commissioners on the Courts of Justice in Scotland. This Report, which has now been printed by order of the House of Commons, relates to the Justice of Peace Courts, and contains a great deal of important matter; but while it is out of our power to exa-mine this report at present, we ought to call the public attention to the proposed Amended Small-Debt Act, which is given in the Appendix. Many of the alterations suggested are improvements; but we shall not be easily reconciled to any enlargement of the sum which may be sued for in these Courts of Conscience. We should like better to see the forms of process in our Sheriff Courts simplified, and the ex-pense of the proceedings lessened. To be useful, too, the Small Debt Court, in a County like Edinburgh, would require to sit at least twice in the week, and have a Judge, paid for his trouble, which, to do justice, must be very great. At the same time this would be con-trary to the spirit of the Institution, which we understand to be, that persons of rank and wealth shall bestow some portion of their time in adjusting differences among their poorer neighbours. This sort of patriotism, we fear, is not superabundant; and we should like to see it superseded by arbitration societies.",article,64.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486452855/,Thi 1 4 with numerous engravings 6 1 HE EDINBURGH PHILOSOPHICAL JOURNAL No XI Conducted by Dr BREWSTER and Professor JAMESON Account of the recent Chemical Researches Bcrzelius anil lui pupils -Count Mercati on the Earthquake at Zante -Captain Samuel Browns description of the Pier of Suspension at Newhaven ti HAo -MrTAdain account great and on the production of Electri city iqf the Pacific Ocean -Dr Skene KeitTi Azelea Rhododendron -M Latrcillu oh the the Cpngo and Loango-On the Level Monograph of he Genus Erini-urn by Greville of Electro-Magnetic Ex mado by Liepc and Profrssur Moll of Ulreyht extraordinary Cave in -Professor Gmclin contact -Dr Chamisso on the Coral liland on Weights and Measures -Mr David 1 09 on Geographical Distribution of -Mr Maxwell on of the East and West Seas bv John Robison Esq Et with twa Jilales Account Beck Professor Van Ree-i of Pr Waltich Journey in Nepaul -Noi uce the ur Captain pien Obs- through rb 1 glasses Dr Friincis Hamilton the KtiiishduceB Rivers uii tA -Mr Jtrooke -Mr Score 6 by ou the Fogs of the Polar in one of the -Mr Brookeon th Arse- rop the Insensibility of the Bye-to cer Journey uu a- tern Waier Spouta -DfBrBW- ter on Vision on Map of the country between the Erwadiand on New Miticmia wKA nic Scas -DrCtm-- tho- tVu Islands raM the Leguminous Fruits nii trs of Copiicr -iDr Bll tle colours -Sir Charles Gicsefcc on CryoIitB on the Kliira ScoticH-of Dr Hooker ick -Dr Horncr on thc Specific Oravity of of 7 lh September 1 20 Ob ser Proceedings of- various Seienlilic Societies SciEHTinc Edinburgh and Co-London Or whom may bd onc on the Thermal Springs of Yom-M Sea Vl -Dr Trail on the Solar Eclipse the Variation arid Dip ot the Needle made during NCE Printed for and be had -The-EDINBURGH-PHILOSOPHICAL JOURNAL roin its,1821,"This day is published, with numerous engravings, price 7s. 6. THE EDINBURGH PHILOSOPHICAL JOURNAL, No. XI. Conducted by Dr BREWSTER and Professor JAMESON. CONTENTS. Account of the recent Chemical Researches of M. Berzelius and his pupils.–Count Mercati on the Earthquake at Zante.–Captain Samuel Brown's description of the Pier of Suspension at Newhaven (with a plate).–Mr Adam's account of a great and extraordinary Cave in Indiana.–Professor Gmelin on the production of Electri-city by contact.–Dr Chamisso on the Coral Islands of the Pacific Ocean.–Dr Skene Keith on Weights and Measures.–Mr David Don on Azelea, Rhododendron, &c.–M. Latreille on the Geogra-phical Distribution of Insects.–Mr Maxwell on the Congo and Lo-ango.–On the Level of the East and West Seas, by John Robison, Esq.–A Monograph of the Genus Erineum, by R.K. Greville, Esp. (with two plates).–Account of Electro-Magnetic Experiments made by Van Beck, Professor Van Rees of Liege, and Professor Moll of Utrecht.–Notice respecting Dr Wallich's Journey in Nepaul.–No-tice of the late Dr John Walker's Mineralogical Journey and Sys-tem.–Captain Napien's Observations on Water Spouts.–Dr Brew-ster on Vision through coloured glasses.–Dr Francis Hamilton on a Map of the country between the Erwadi and the Khiœnduœn Rivers (with a plate).–Mr Brooke on Sundry New Minerals (with two plates).–Mr Scoresby on the Fogs of the Polar Seas, &c.–Dr Cha-misso on the Vulcano de Taal in one of the Phillipine Islands.–Professor Link on the Leguminous Fruits.–Mr Brooke on the Arse-niates of Copper. Dr Butter on the Insensibility of the Eye to cer-tain colours.–Sir Charles Gieseke on Cryolite.–Remarks on the Flora Scotica of Dr Hooker.–Mr Livingstone on the Thermal Springs of Yom-Mack.–Dr Horner on the Specific Gravity of Sea Water.–Dr Trail on the Solar Eclipse of 7th September 1820.–Observations on the Variation and Dip of the Needle made during Kotzebue's Voyage.–Proceedings of various Scientific Societies.–SCIENTIFIC INTELLIGENCE, &c. Printed for A. CONSTABLE and Co. Edinburgh; and LONGMAN & Co. London. Of whom may be had, The EDINBURGH PHILOSOPHICAL JOURNAL, from its commencement, price 7s. 6d. each.",classified_ad,65.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486452802/,BIilTH DAh THE-RIGHT HON -CHARLES JAM HE ANNUAL CEL-EBR ATlOlSrof the BIRTH-bAY of-the-Riffht-Hon -C FOX -in Edinburgh will be held -as usual on Thursday the 21 th-J inui ry in the Waterloo Tavern Li 6 uten nt 0 er Sir KO ALU-C EER USON and in the Chair ANCIS JEFFREY Esq Croupier Tickets One Guinea Itis requ cd that those to attend will put down names as early as possible to avoid at inconvenience arise when that is delayed to the last day Dec 24 182 1,1821,"BIRTH DAY OF THE RIGHT HON. CHARLES JAMES FOX. THE ANNUAL CELEBRATION OF THE BIRTH-DAY of the Right Hon. C. J. FOX, in Edinburgh, will be held, as usual, on Thursday the 24th January, in the Waterloo Tavern. Lieutenant General Sir RONALD C. FERGUSON, K.C.B. and M.P. in the Chair. FRANCIS JEFFREY, Esq. Croupier. Tickets, One Guinea. It is requested that those who mean to attend will put down their names as early as possible, to avoid the great inconvenience that must arise when that is delayed to the last day. Dec. 24. 1821.",classified_ad,66.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486452729/,M- see her asan eagle her nighty youth kindling her eye at th mid-day purging and unsealing he long-abused lig ht at tlie fountain itself of radiance while the whole-noise of and birds with those tl ut love the twilight flutter nt what she means and in their gabble would year and schisms It is stated pi froin Ireland inserted 111 the Morning Chronicle that the population of country is ascertained by the census to amount to MILLIONS KCNDnEOTHOusAND In 1788 the- did not amount to alf tli is sum so that notwithstanding all the cmis which Ireland has to the United Stales and Great Britain onW the course of the last thirty Yp years We intend to an early opportunity -to lay unparalleled increase-on increase which whatever may tlie theory of aa explained and dispute renders an exposition of the causes of this be its other -has at least served to et by Mr beyond the reach covil,1821,"Methinks I see her as an eagle, muing her mighty youth, kind-ling her undazzled eyes at the full mid-day beam, purging and unscaling her long abused sight at the fountain itself of hea-venly radiance, while the whole-noise of timorous and flock-ing birds, with those also that love the twilight, flutter about, amazed at what she means, and in their endless gabble would prognosticate a year of sects and schisms.""––It is stated, in a communication from Ireland inserted in the Morning Chronicle, that the population of that country is ascertained by the last census to amount to SEVEN MILLIONS THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND. In 1788, the population did not amount to half this sum; so that, notwithstanding all the emi-grants which Ireland has sent to the United States and Great Britain, she has more than doubled her inhabitants in the course of the last thirty-two years! We intend to embrace an early opportunity to lay before our readers an exposition of the causes of this unparalleled increase–an increase which, what-ever may be its other effects, has at least served to set the theory of population, as explained by Mr MALTHUS, beyond the reach of cavil and dispute.",article,67.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486449008/,PRINT OF HE REV -THOMAS HE Friends of DrCuA LMEris are informed thata-PrintA- Picture is to be by WA Engraver Kingi and Uuke of Swh- Proof 6 ions One Guinea anda half Prints OneGuirica names are nt Mr GEOBEtfe Exhibitiqn Waterloo Place where the picture maybe scan ANCis 2 Bank Street Ai ESAnnr FlKr AY Argyle Street Giacgow oni Co Coci spu Str ccf London,1821,"PRINT OF THE REV. THOMAS CHALMERS, D.D. THE Friends of Dr CHALMERS are respectfully informed, that a Print from Mr GEDDES'S Picture is to be engraved by WILLIAM WARD, A.R.A. Engraver to the King and Duke of York. Proof impressions, One Guinea and a half.–Prints, One Guinea. Subscribers' names are received at Mr GEDDES'S Exhibition, Water-loo Place, where the picture may be seen; also by FRANCIS CAME-RON, 2 Bank Street; ALEXANDER FINLAY, Argyle Street, Glasgow; and COLNAGHI & Co. Cockspur Street, London.",classified_ad,68.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486439182/,SEflSUiiSTK Al IONS Mair THitnor -Win Sulfieet car Wtrt -il in JJmN il air Glai ow,1821,"SEQUESTRATIONS. John Mair, vintner and horse setter in Glasgow. Wm. Soufleet, dealer in glass and earthen ware, Edinburgh. Wm. Gallaway, merchant and insurance broker, Leith. James McNair, merchant and sugar refiner in Glasgow.",other,69.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486433597/,TANA On the- 1 st of January ill be published price 1 Is tlie -Fifth 1 arf- Four Parts price 1 1 each of HE This Work -has the Mhnaficineni of New Proprietoit who for its continuance upon the -and for its future regular Publication -tSf A-li Wi Prospecnifrwill be ready for delivery in few days Pnnted-h MAT Uii and HivikGTbN BAnnwre SrJo Sii Biiwoon Nr ELV Wr AVmTTA cEn -pGi DiiticAti Co Loodon Oxford and DEiciiT oir SoNt Cambridge,1821,"ENCYCLOPAEDIA METROPOLITANA––On the 1st of January next will be published, price L. 1, 1s. the Fifth Part and the Four preceding Parts, price L.1, 1s. each of THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA METROPOLITANA. This Work has fallen under the Management of New Proprietors, who have made arrangements for its permanent continuance upon the original Plan, and for its future regular Publication. A new Prospectus will be ready for delivery in a few days. Printed for J MAWMAN; C.F. and J. RIVINGTON; BALDWIN, CRADOC & JOY; SHERWOOD, NEELY & JONES; G. & W.B. WHIT-TAKER; OGLE, DUNCAN & C. London; J. PARKER, Oxford; and DEIGHTON & SONS, Cambridge.",classified_ad,70.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486396750/,PICTURES- are -now on PUBLIC VlEW -at BaucE GreatRoom Waterloo -l ce fr oni 10 till 4 clock 1 Admittance Is -Catalogue 8 -Tickets for the Sea 8 on 5,1821,"MR. GEDDES'S PICTURES are now on PUBLIC VIEW, at BRUCE'S Great Room, Waterloo Place, from 10 till 4 o'clock. Admittance, 1s.–Catalogues, 8d.–Tickets for the Season, 5s.",classified_ad,71.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486462872/,NAPOLEONS GREAT WORK Next week will he the first two vols in 8 vo containing Fi c-Sii-nile and tour plans in French 24 -Knali- 28 of ihe HISTORY of FRANCE -in the REIGN of NAPO -KON by tlie KMPIiKOK to hi Ailcs-rio-Camp MONTIIOl n- KEirritAND GninicMili and from the COU BY MSELF Prililed Ibr HENRY CoLinnin inrt Co ami Co Lonrtun and EI rind BI AI Pdriiament Squ-ire Edin burgh,1822,"NAPOLEON'S GREAT WORK Next week will be published, the first two vols in 8vo, containing a Fac-Simile and four plans, in French, 24s.–English, 28s. MEMOIRS of the HISTORY of FRANCE, during the REIGN of NAPOLEON, dictated by the EMPEROR at SAINT HELENA, to his Aides-de-Camp; Counts MONTHO-LON, BERTRAND, GOURGAUD, &c. and published from the ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS. CORRECTED BY HIMSELF. Printed for HENRY COLBURN and Co.; and M. BOSSANGE & co. London; and BELL and BRADFUTE, 6. Parliament Square, Edin-burgh. ",classified_ad,72.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486462542/,uEi UhRS MARY OF SCOiS Tills are published in 2 voli avo wi li genuine Portrait never before price 1 4 of MARY QUEEN of SCOTS with Anec the SECOND during her Residence in Fr- Hy Miss Printed for MAK HunsT IKES BR London Ofwhom may be had by the same Author 1 MEMOIRS of the LIFE of ANNE BOLEYN Queen of Henry VIII edit In 2 with Two Portrails 16 2 MEMOlU Softhe late Mrs ELIZABETH HAMILTON Tlie 2 edit in 2 vols Ivo with 1 iit 1 Is Hoards 5 MEMOlllSofMrJOHN TOB 1 Author of the In Svo price 12 boards,1822,"MISS BENGER'S MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS This day are published, in 2 vols. 8vo. with a genuine Portrait, never before engraved, price L.1, 4s., MEMOIRS of MARY, QUEEN of SCOTS, with Anec-dotes of the Court of HENRY the SECOND, during her Residence in France. By Miss BENGER. Printed for LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME & BROWN, London. Of whom may be had, by the same Author. 1. MEMOIRS of the LIFE of ANNE BOLEYN, Queen of Henry VIII. 2d. edit, in 2 vols, with Two Portraits, 16s. 2. MEMOIRS of the late Mrs ELIZABETH HAMILTON. The 2d edit, in 2 vols, with Two Portraits, L.1, 1s. boards. 3. MEMOIRS of Mr JOHN TOBIN, Author of the HONEY-MOON. In 8vo, price 12s. boards.",classified_ad,73.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486461612/,VINK -Suui -On Satiirilny list mi lc bust of Sir Widier Scott was in il ii Parliament Hon on pc- Irstnl of extravagant liri lil With llie of few thL of Urolidipimg ho to he in it pre ent HI Ronio curious who the of spy-Rliissi on no ouc ilse by sh We however who had the pleasure of bust cm ha day preceding in llie Ruhinp-room mid willi its do frel ri at 6 in for llic credit of our country that it wns sculptured by our townsman Mr Secular This marble exhibits thf features and character of the SIM of the Norlh in in striking and eu milliner and it ird to works arr ot cnu rely -il wv hesitate not in lo do so tbp judicious hus so nll his Tlir Iriiliilily inu- i- well and tile el is apparent in tlie head snd the dr Vo ihu to Mr Sriulnr has executed In vi it of various distin public nnd uf the likeness of those with vc lire and in of lie Henry Grey it in OUT lo that Ill has most in busts much classical feeling with very and improved hand,1822,"FINE ARTS.–SCULPTURE.–On Saturday last, a marble bust of Sir Walter Scott was exhibited in the Parliament House, on a pe-destal of extravagant height. With the exception of a few of the natives of Brobdingnag (who happen to be in town at present) and some curious persons who took the precaution of providing good spy-glasses on the occasion, no one else could by possibility distin-guish any of the features. We, however, who had the pleasure of seeing this bust on the day preceding, in the Robing-room, and impressed with its excellence, do feel great satisfaction in a mention-ing, for the credit of our country, that it was sculptured by our townsman, Mr Scoular. This marble exhibits the features and character of the ""Star of the North"" in a most striking and effec-tive manner; and although it is hardly fair to criticise works that are not entirely finished, we hesitate not in this instance to do so, because the judicious artist has succeeded so well in his attempt.–The flexibility of the muscles is remarkably well marked, and the freedom of the chisel is apparent, both in the head and the drapery. We have had the gratification, besides, to inspect some models Mr Scoular has executed during his visit, of various distinguish-ed public characters here; and of the likeness of those with whom we are acquainted, and, in particular, of the Reverend Henry Grey, it is in our power to express ingenuously, that he has succeeded most happily, and evinced in these busts much classical feeling, with a very masterly and improved hand.",review,74.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486442337/,Alexander Kcrr hab-rdn lur and silk Edinburgh MAlic Hardii ii-i llla anw ot Kllcunquli ir Mill il corn andl,1822,"SEQUESTRATIONS. Alexander Kerr, haberdasher and silk mercer, Edinburgh. McAlie & Hardie, grains merchants, Glasgow. James Craig, tenant of Kilconquhar Mill, Fifeshire, corn merchant, miller, and meal dealer.",article,75.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486424746/,primal aid published ABEBNIirHY WALKER 16 Higll SItClt,1822,"Printed and published by ABERNETHY & WALKER, 156. High Street",other,76.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486426889/,ANNUAL BOOK Sold bv 0 Co Edinburgh THE DIARY ron 1825 price 5 Printed for daily memorandums fur the whole and with money columns as to serve fur of cash record-o daily transactions on pl thai IMS met approbation JOH THOMSON Co have an extensive of ACCOUNT HOOKS of tlie best writing papers and ruli-d for various purposes ol bn iness by machinery wilh binding in best style lilted for y-Kuuh Journals Cash-li Lctigrr and onks in ol ruli ng and sizes as to them CJnipletu sets of Aci- Jjooks to any,1822,"ANNUAL MEMORANDUM BOOK Sold by JOHN THOMSON & Co. Edinburgh, THE DIARY FOR 1825, price 5s. Printed for daily memorandums for the whole year, and ruled with money columns, as to serve for a balancing of cash, and a record of daily transactions, on a plan that has met with general approbation, JOHN THOMSON & CO. have an extensive assortment of ACCOUNT BOOKS, made of the best writing papers, and ruled for the various purposes of busi-ness, by machinery, with binding in best style, fitted for Day-Books, Journals, Cash-Books, Ledgers, and other subsidiary Books, in a va-riety of ruling, binding, and sizes, as to enable them to furnish com-plete sets of Account Books, almost to any pattern.",classified_ad,77.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486424733/,CHRISTMAS GIFTS WILSON anil Co -14 Gi STiicrT have nt 0 pri-sen- hand nn ivr u- of KItf itli cral and Ue ill Ciinniliition thr und lit Frrncfi and ll ili in in tnt or plani ani kin lii g- Alii Ds ec ip Puzzle and to rl iie thu 1 1 il SupriliiH Keili Vritn lil ing irrs nd til iri cl Alsi ili rli ip Siir ot Wniin ipers vi 0 lir and Ints,1822,"CHRISTMAS GIFTS W. WILSON and Co. 44. GEORGE STREET, have at present on hand an extensive assortment of Elegant, Mo-ral, and Useful Compilations for the instruction and amusement of YOUTH, English, French, and Italian, in a great variety of plain and elegant bindings. Also, Dissected Maps, Puzzles, and other Schemes, to accelerate the attainment of knowledge. Superfine Kent Writing and Drawing Papers, and all other Sta-tionery articles. Also the cheap sorts of Writing Papers, viz. Posts, Foolscaps, and Pots.",classified_ad,78.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486429075/,SEQOEStRATlONS William Rn Trtsiiri innkeeper Perth tcr Tner iiit wright atid bul Gt Ocortje vach Tliurao William Cuslmy Aljardoen,1822,"SEQUESTRATIONS. William Robertson, innkeeper, Perth. George Dempster, merchant, wright, and builder, Greenock. George Levach, merchant, Thurso. William Cushny, merchant, Aberdeen.",article,79.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486435801/,THE SCOT-S,1822,THE SCOTSMAN,other,80.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482088000/,The President s speech to Congress of which an _abstract will _he found in our previous columns will give unmingled delight to all who wish well to the _best-interests of mankind In Mexico Columbia _Peru Chili Braail- _-at every _spot in the western hemisphere where _infant _freedom has raised her head or _struggles for _existence-it _will be received with a tumult of joy The Holy Allies not satisfied with extirpating liberty from the old continent were seeking pretexts to extend their iron tyranny to the new as if they seriously purposed to _suffer _-up government _to exist on the face of the globe which could be a reproach to their own gloomy despotisms The-IJnite dStates tliough wisely averseto war saw that _the momoatcfor _taking a decided part was come _and with _a boldness which has delighted the friends of liberty as much _.-as it will _astound its enemies they have announced by -the organ of their government that they _will- consider the _Sfirst attempt of the Holy Allies tp extend their system to any part of the American _continent as an act of hostility to them Such is the real import though not the express words of what is stated by the president The step is very _decided-and we venture to think very wise-in their circumstances If the neutrality of Britain and the United States could liave been depended on the weakness of the new governments in America certainly presented a _-tempting opportunity for the _Holy Allies to _establish their power in the western world Such an attempt on _then part must have sooner or later involved them in a war _withthe United States and it was _therefore wise in the _latter to announce tlieir _intentions before the other _parties were so far _committed -i _that-they-could not _draw-back After the subjugation of Italy _and Spain the Holy Confederacy had really some _reason to believe that tlie _terror of their name _would- compel all _rations either to crouch under their feet or to witness their atrocious aggressions in a _state of dignified neutrality 7 The conduct of the American Government will cure them of this illusion We subscribe to the Courier s opinion that we shall hear no more of a _Congress to _settle the _affairs of South Am _riffn We liave put the passages of _the _speech _which _refer particularly to _this subject in Italics and _shall _not therefore _f epeat _them here They _deserve consideration and the r eader will see that they fully warrant the _conclusions _we _have drawn from them The _constitution of the _American _Government affbrds us additional reasons for putting entire confidence in the determination iinnounccd by the _Prenident The power of _making war and peace _is vested not in _tile _Executive but in Congress and liencc in this _case _and _indeed in all measures of importance the President _consuius the leading men in the Legislature and adopts no _resolution without their concurrence This _first magistrate is iu fact an organ of the public voice as much as either House of Congress and we may rest _assured that ill _tin s _instanct he _has not _expressed his own _sentiments _merely but _the _sentiments of the _American people There is no doubt that the resolute tone _adopted by the American Government _will have an effect upon our own and that our ministers will now find it consistent with their _prudence and their _love of _peace to hold a more _decided language Some of the other statements in the President s _Message are _deserving of notice _He takes care to dwell upon the nourishing condition of the _army and navy the _fine _state of the _military academy _fortresses and manufactories of arms _the devotion of the nation to the _defence of _their institutions and what presents the _most striking contrast to _the care of legitimate monarchies tlic flourishing state of the finances so that the Americans are actually paying off debt rapidly while the Holy _Allies are _adding to _their Iricumbrances from _year to year _He _proposes _that the Slave Trade should be _declared piracy and that the _system of allowing an enemy _s trading ships to pass _unmolestcd in war -a system long ago recomtnendcd by FAANKLIN and _acted upon by tlic Frencli during their late attack on Spain-should be _universally _adopted _Altogether we warmly recommend the speech to a careful perusal It i most justly characterised by the _rimes as a document of a very _different description from those flimsy communications called Kings speeches addressed to Lords and Com inons Peers and Deputies in kingdoms nearer home The _latter- as fsources of intelligence-as indication of policy-as keys to national history have of late year dwindled to nothing realising with curious accuracy TALLEYRAND S definition of _the- use of _language- auinstrument for concealing men s _thoughts rhe gemui of a popular _government _rejectsthese mysterious _devises which we are sorry to sec practised amongst any people a-Iive to the natural _find _almost _indissoluble-intimacy between frankness of speech and rectitude of action The President s _message of the United States is a paper breathing _business in _every line It is at _once a picture o f _the period elapsed since the labours of Congress were last interrupted a prospectus for the forthcoming year the _detailed report of a _commissioner and _the formal account of a trustee On scarcely any occasion do we _recollect a _message from this high officer of the United States delivered during a time of peace which might not be _consulted- _as a safe and pregnant authority for the events _and _politics of the crisis at which it was made public whether with regard to the concerns of the Union or to those of surrounding nations We have at length the pleasure to announce the expulsion of the last remnant of the Spanish force from Columbia Porto Cabello was taken by assault by _Generals PAEZ and _BEHMUUEZ on tho 8 th November and on Ilia 10 th the few Spanish troops _which survived the assault and found refuge in an island in the harbour capitulated Thus ended a contest which has lasted with spine _pauses since i 810 and which Spanish obstinacy has _prolonged _at a vast expense of blood for many years after every rational hope of success had vanished For this sort of obstinacy _the _effect of pride the Spaniard has been distinguished in all _ages He is as old P ETEII _HEYLIN says like one of those animals which being once crept into a place _is so rooted there that nothing but the extremity of _violenca can fetch him out again It is this disposition which makes him a bigot in religion-a _despiser of foreign nations and foreign improvements-an _inexorable cneniy who will _inflict a thousand miseries upon himself for the _sake of doing a _small injury to his adversary Feeble and sluggish ti his _passions are _engaged in _the quarrel war with him then becomes war to tho _knife For the last fifteen years lie has acted the _hero wherever he was _fighting in support of ignorance _intolerance and oppression and his pride and courage _never _deserted him till he was engaged in the cause in which the great _and the _wise in every _ago have been proud to shed they blood _Columbia has now terminated so far as regards _herself this arduous struggle and _she has well _established her title to _independence by the sacrifices _she has made to _obtain it She has broken the arm that held her in thral-. _dom-aiid will how be able to _apply her whole _energies to the cultivation of her vast _natural _resources _Pdsscs&iqg _in fertile and boundless territory enjoying the fullest _ineastircs-,1823,"The President's speech to Congress, of which an abstract will be found in our previous columns, will give unmingled delight to all who wish well to the best interests of man-kind. In Mexico, Columbia, Peru, Chili, Brazil–at every spot in the western hemisphere where infant freedom has raised her head, or struggles for existence–it will be received with a tumult of joy. The Holy Allies, not satis-fied with extirpating liberty from the old continent, were seeking pretexts to extend their iron tyranny to the new, as if they seriously purposed to suffer no government to exist on the face of the globe which could be a reproach to their own gloomy despotisms. The United States, though wisely averse to war, saw that the moment for taking a de-cided part was come, and with a boldness which has delighted the friends of liberty, as much as it will astound its enemies, they have announced, by the organ of their go-vernment, that they will consider the first attempt of the Holy Allies to extend their system to any part of the Ame-rican continent as an act of hostility to them. Such is the real import, though not the express words, of what is stated by the president. The step is very decided–and we ven-ture to think very wise–in their circumstances. If the neu-trality of Britain and the United States could have been de-pended on, the weakness of the new governments in America certainly presented a tempting opportunity for the Holy Allies to establish their power in the western world. Such an attempt on their part must have sooner or later involved them in a war with the United States, and it was therefore wise in the latter to announce their intentions before the other parties were so far committed that they could not draw back. After the subjugation of Italy and Spain the Holy Confederacy had really some reason to believe, that the terror of their name would compel all nations either to crouch under their feet, or to witness their atrocious aggres-sions in a state of ""dignified neutrality."" The conduct of the American Government will cure them of this illusion. We subscribe to the Courier's opinions, that we shall hear no more of Congress to settle the affairs of South Ame-rica. We have put the passages of the speech which refer par-ticularly to this subject in Italics, and shall not therefore repeat them here. They deserve consideration, and the reader will see that they fully warrant the conclusions we have drawn from them. The constitution of the American Government affords us additional reasons for putting entire confidence in the determination announced by the Presi-dent. The power of making war and peace is vested not in the Executive but in Congress; and hence, in this case, and indeed in all measure of importance, the President consults the leading men in the Legislature, and adopts no resolu-tion without their concurrence. This first magistrate is in fact an organ of the public voice as much as either House of Congress, and we may rest assured that in this instance he has not expressed his own sentiments merely, but the sentiments of the American people. There is no doubt that the resolute tone adopted by the American Government will have an effect upon our own; and that our ministers will now find it consistent with their prudence, and their love of peace, to hold a more decided language. Some of the other statements in the President's Message are deserving of notice. He takes care to dwell upon the flourishing condition of the army and navy, the fine state of the military academy, fortresses, and manufactories of arms, the devotion of the nation to the defence of their in-stitutions, and what presents the most striking contrast to the care of legitimate monarchies, the flourishing state of the finances, so that the Americans are actually paying off debt rapidly, while the Holy Allies are adding to their in-cumbrances from year to year. He proposes that the Slave Trade should be declared piracy, and that the system of allowing an enemy's trading ships to pass unmolested in war–a system long ago recommended by FRANKLIN, and act-ed upon by the French during their late attack on Spain–should be universally adopted. Altogether we warmly recommend the speech to a careful perusal. It is most justly characterised by the Times as a document of a very difference description from those flimsy communica-tions called King's speeches, addressed to Lords and Com-mons, Peers and Deputies, in kingdoms nearer home. The latter–""as sources of intelligence–as indications of policy–as keys to national history, have of late years dwindled to nothing, realising with curious accuracy TAL-LEYRAND'S definition of the use of language–'an instrument for concealing men's thoughts.' The genius of a popular government rejects these mysterious devices, which we are sorry to see practised amongst any people a-live to the natural and almost indissoluble intimacy be-tween frankness of speech and rectitude of action. The President's message of the United States is a paper breath-ing business in every line. It is at once a picture of the period elapsed since the labours of Congress were last interrupted, a prospectus for the forthcoming year, the de-tailed report of a commissioner, and the formal account of a trustee. On scarcely any occasion do we recollect a mes-sage from this high officer of the United States, delivered during a time of peace, which might not be consulted as a safe and pregnant authority for the events and politics of the crisis at which it was made public, whether with re-gard to the concerns of the Union or to those of surround-ing nations."" We have at length the pleasure to announce the expul-sion of the last remnant of the Spanish force from Colum-bia. Porto Cabello was taken by assault by Generals PAEZ and BERMUDEZ on the 8th November, and on the 10th the few Spanish troops which survived the assault, and found refuge in an island in the harbour, capitulated. Thus ended a contest which has lasted, with some pauses, since 1810, and which Spanish obstinacy has prolonged, at a vast expense of blood, for many years after every rational hope of success had vanished. For this sort of obstinacy, the effect of pride, the Spaniard has been distinguished in all ages. He is, as old PETER HEYLIN says, ""like one of those animals which, being once crept into a place, is so rooted there, that nothing but the extremity of violence can fetch him out again."" It is this disposition which makes him a bigot in religion–a despiser of foreign na-tions and foreign improvements–an inexorable enemy, who will inflict a thousand miseries upon himself for the sake of doing a small injury to his adversary. Feeble and sluggish till his passions are engaged in the quarrel, war with him then becomes ""war to the knife."" For the last fifteen years he has acted the hero wherever he was fight-ing in support of ignorance, intolerance, and oppression; and his pride and courage never deserted him till he was engaged in the cause in which the great and the wise in every age have been proud to shed their blood. Columbia has now terminated, so far as regards herself, this arduous struggle; and she has well established her title to independence by the sacrifices she has made to ob-tain it. She has broken the arm that held her in thral-dom–and will now be able to apply her whole energies to the cultivation of her vast natural resources. Possessing a fertile and boundless territory, enjoying the fullest measure",editorial_article,81.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482073917/,COURT OF _SESSION PALACE Of HOLVU OOU-l lt _lYlLEOBor _SAXCTtrART The _following important _cme _WM lately deemed _In the _Court 01 Session i r _A-family of _distinction _resitted for _tome _tune within thepahc ot Holyrood and _afterwards _tiiiving _gone _to Kngtind a creditor on a decreet obtained _against them _railed diligence _and _charged _tlieiii _onanmilwKC IhSdays which run _betwixt the citation ot a _deisuder and the day of _umpcarance in _ths action of _six d y to _pay _-a certain debt Under pain of poinding on the expiration ot tlie _six _days The creditor under _sanction of the Uailie oftlui Abbey _attempted B _poinding of lii _i debtor _itWecu within the paU e At alnst this proceeding a bill of _suspension w s nresenteil tottic Co urt of _Session _complaining 1 st That _as tlie Noble _coinplainer _wasfurth of Sicotland the charge _ought to _have been on an _ifiducw of _sixty _daysi 2 _dThutit _was illegal to _execute a _pomduig within the sanctuary and 3 d It _WM partlcuUrly unlawful to do so _With _in the _Koyuf Palace _On _considering _the blU the Lord Ordinary _refused it to the effect that _the _respondent _credllorl may execute hia _poinding _reserving ttll _objections to _its _valfdity _The suspender _petitioned the _Court _against _thatjudgment wniie _uiia _olu which _petition was _ordered to be answered anu was current liecreditor _endeavouredto _carry _through _a- newpolnd _Ing upon a charge iSf _t&ty days _wKeteuiian _a _second _bUlOt sua pension was prcsentcd _fOTthenobleIArd _und also a bill of _suipension _Ity the _Officem oi Sstale _coiUplalnintf _of _thftpoinding within the Palace _both of lhe se bills the -Lord Ordinary retused _against which iliterlocu _arthe nobleL 6 rd and the Otticera of btate coiriplairiera petitioned helririer HpUs e On advising the petition with _answers in the nrst bill oftuiipcn iio n the Court _aahered to theLord Otdinaty a _interlocutor _in re pcct tlie _nobleLoril haa hot _olTer d _caution _but their Uordships iia iied he noble _Lbrd s _accdmlbiH _that _the iuestioti inighl bc tried by _1 iim arid by the _Offleers of _-ytate _whether ifwas leJ at to execute a iioinaing _witliia _-ihe _Kirigs Palace The _bill ot ttS-. peri ion _whichhad _beeri-preserilcd for theOrocers of _State Wi alsb pa _ssea by the C 6 _urt to iry that i uesti 6 h _anil _me _casewas re _inittcd tb I rdAllowayt 6 hear parties _ohthetrireapectlve plea Having _heai d lhe cttu e atgreatIerigth theI ord _Ordinary tound the _poiridingA _competent and _sustnined tlie treditor _a _ritsllt In respect that tli erei ribpreceae rit Tor _tlie _sanctUBry df _Uolyrooilhouse or for the Palace _-affording Bny prote ction to the eflecta ot debtqrs _resiairifc tfaerelh _sdysWreliewihiimftom pbinding that _the- sUtincn _tler _si- _reasun- couia _pplyoiilytollie Sovercignyreaidenco in the _Piilace _i hase preatri _ceought nof to b e dist irbed by the _intrusion of pErsons into the _Pidace withblit _his _permlsalon _-or that ot tlic kecper apilibihtc d byllini _t _iirid _that _the _dili _6 _cn _e _ln _Question was _authorised _by the Bardh Builie _of-the Abbey the _bfiiciir _ftp piMed b y the ercditary kceper _of-the Palace _r _ilidns _we _e _p _esenteato _tHbtIniler- _House _againat _thBt _l _Judg mcrit _i _but _thell L rdihIps _uriailiinously adhered,1823,"COURT OF SESSION. PALACE OF HOLYROOD–PRIVILEGE OF SANCTUARY. The following important case was lately decided in the Court of Session: A family of distinction resided for some time within the palace of Holyrood, and afterwards having gone to England, a creditor, on a decreet obtained against them, raised diligence, and charged them, on an induciae (the days which run betwixt the citation of a defen-der and the day of compearance in the action) of six days, to pay a certain debt, under pain of poinding on the expiration of the six days. The creditor, under sanction of the Bailie of the Abbey, attempted a poinding of his debtor's effects within the palace. A-gainst this proceeding a bill of suspension was presented to the Court of Session, complaining, 1st, That as the Noble complainer was forth of Scotland, the charge ought to have been on an induciae of sixty days; 2d, That it was illegal to execute a poinding within the sanctuary; and 3d, It was particularly unlawful to do so with-in the Royal Palace. On considering the bill, the Lord Ordinary refused it, ""to the effect that the respondent (creditor) may execute his poinding, re-serving all objections to its validity."" The suspender positioned the Court against that judgment; which petition was ordered to be answered, and, while this order was current, the creditor endeavoured to carry through a new poind-ing upon a charge of sixty days; whereupon a second bill of sus-pension was presented for the noble Lord, and also a bill of sus-pension by the Officers of State, complaining of the poinding with-in the Palace; both of these bills the Lord Ordinary refused; against which interlocutor the noble Lord and the Officers of State, complainers, petitioned the Inner-House. On advising the petition with answers in the first bill of suspen-sion, the Court adhered to the Lord Ordinary's interlocutor, in re-spect the noble Lord had not offered caution; but their Lordships passed the noble Lord's second bill, that the question might be tried by him and by the Officers of State, whether it was legal to execute a poinding within the King's Palace? The bill of sus-pension, which had been presented for the Officers of State, was also passed by the Court to try that question, and the case was re-mitted to Lord Alloway to hear parties on their respective pleas. Having heard the cause at great length, the Lord Ordinary found the poindings competent, and sustained the creditor's right, ""In respect that there is no precedent for the sanctuary of Holyrood-house, or for the Palace, affording an protection to the effects of debtors residing therein, so us to relieve them from poinding; that the suspender's reason could apply only to the Sovereign's residence in the Palace, whose presence ought not to be disturbed by the in-trusion of persons into the Palace without his permission, or that of the keeper appointed by Him; and that the diligence in question was authorised by the Baron Bailie of the Abbey, the officer ap-pointed by the hereditary keeper of the Palace."" Petitions were presented to the Inner-House against that judg-ment, but their Lordships unanimously adhered.
",article,82.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482074058/,Thursday Friday and Saturday were _holidays at the Bank,1823,"Thursday, Friday, and Saturday were holidays at the Bank.",other,83.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482073974/,i _&J S _u _ik _Ju _uWJ _jjUUjBHMRB _LiMi i _Sfimfl 1 i Jti _Smart s Thwtie Street Rooms V _-W _rR-WAI-KER _Bliio MspcetfuUy _announces the THIRD _JVL _i _LECTURE of his Couroe _-forThursday and FOURTH _on _3 _Murday _Bt _one _Bnd _7 _intheev _enine _7 _l _Tennss-Ten _transferable _tIclcetsiOne Guinea one _admit- tinc totheEidouranion _single dittb 28 6 d i to _be-had and a _Prospectus _gratis at MessraManner 3 and lliller _High Street und of Air ItobertaoniBIusic _Shop Princes _Sireet Each Leiiture _of-the _Course 1 _hourJ i,1823,"EIDOURANION In Smart's Thistle Street Rooms. MR WALKER also respectfully announces the THIRD LECTURE of his Course, for Thursday, and FOURTH on Saturday, at one, and 7 in the evening. Terms:–Ten transferable tickets, One Guinea; (one admit-ting to the Eidouranion) single ditto, 2s. 6d. To be had, and a Prospectus gratis, at Messrs Manners and Miller, High Street; and of Mr Robertson, Music Shop, Prince's Street.–Each Lecture of the Course 1 1/4 hour.",classified_ad,84.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482062935/,TO NIGHT _yjKUNESDAY 31 ST _DECEMBEP ANU F&I 11 _AY 21 JANUABT 1 THE _NE W _i,1823,"TO NIGHT. WEDNESDAY 31ST DECEMBER, AND FRIDAY 2D JANUARY, THE NEW",other,85.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482081021/,_UUina _arrived in _London on _Monday morning by l lie _m _aiTs froin Bath Wc uriderstarid that the project of _raising money fdr SpAin the alienation of her pretended rights over her late colonies is _perfectly _independent of-the negociation Tor a loan -which was uie _principal _-object ot the visit of _Messrs _Rothschild Baring _smi _living to Paris _-The chief _impediment in the _way _of this la _11 1 transaction is _the obstinate _determination of the Spanish government not to _acknowledge the debts contracted by the Cortes _but _the capitalists in _question are _equally fixed in the resolution not to _stuviiiice any money unless lhat it is _maile a _preliminary conuition and as _Ferdinand is _literally without a Hollar in his _cone it is _supposed _lie must give way -7 _toic _-i It is rumoured in the _literary circles _that _Mr Coleridge _ii _thi _successful candidate cliosen by Mi M urray to succeetl Mr Giffoii in _editing the 2 _fMfTi y CBif r Th esalary is i 10 0 per _a _mm-nr _iolPuj cr _J,1823,"Mina arrived in London on Monday morning, by the mail, from Bath. We understand that the project of raising money for Sapin on the alienation of her pretended rights over her late colonies, is per-fectly independent of the negotiation for a loan, which was the principal object of the visit of Messrs Rothschild, Baring, and Ir-ving, to Paris. The chief impediment of the Spanish govern-ment not to acknowledge the debts contracted by the Cortes; but the capitalists in question are equally fixed in the resolution not to advance any money, unless that it is made a preliminary condi-tion; and as Ferdinand is literally without a dollar in his coffers, it is supposed he must give way.–-Times. It is rumoured in the literary circles that Mr Coleridge is the successful candidate chosen by Mr Murray to succeed Mr Gifford in editing the Quarterly Review. The salary is £1000 per an-num.–-Bristol Paper.",article,86.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482077759/,SEQUESTItA TIONS John Tweedale _vintner _and mail-coach contractoi in Montrose _Creditors _meet within the house of _Andrew _Hunter vintner Montrose upon the 5 th ahd 20 th January _1834 _at one o clock after noon to choose factor _and _trustee _James Gow junior _-merchant _tailor in _Glasgow Crcditora meet within the Lvceum Kboins _eiaagow on the 30 thi _Decembey _and 15 th January nt one o clock afternoon to clioose factor and _trustee,1823,"SEQUESTRATIONS John Tweedale, vintner and mail-coach contractor in Montrose. Creditors meet within the house of Andrew Hunter, vintner, Mon-trose, upon the 5th and 20th January, 1824, at one o'clock after noon, to choose factor and trustee. James Gow, junior, merchant tailor, in Glasgow. Creditors meet within the Lyceum Rooms, Glasgow, on the 30th Decem-ber and 15th January, at one o'clock afternoon, to choose factor and trustee.",article,87.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482073774/,aritO _sDipPiiltt Anni _vED-Dec 23 _Commerce Hudson yarmouth _grain--24 Free Mason Baxter Lynn _barley-Juno Ewin Yarmouth do _-Thomas and Eleanor Winn Lynn _grain-AnsonCringle V ells grain-Margaret Spence Stromness _goods-Eliza Chadd Lynn _grain-SaUy Cook do do --25 Keatty Nicol 80 n Grcenbck goods-Mary Primrose London barley- _Lillie TBylor _Kiga goods-Comet _Marshall _London goods-Delight Smith do do-Albion Graham Hiimburgh goods- Prankibrt _Paton do do-Hatiibro PaQket _Bisset _do-. do -Fly Rodgers Glasgow goods-Janet Buchannan D umbarton _glass-AdniiridDuncan _BILeMi Greenock goods-Dunbar _Packet Lawson Dunbar _grftiii-. _SO Queen _Charlotte Crabb _-London goods- _Vare Neal yarmouth barley-Ocean Johnstone London goods _CLEAIIBO OUT 24-Nornn Cheync Lerwick _goods-Marquis of Hiintiv Norrie _i _-Abcrdcen ditto-venus Martin London ditto 2 i C cres _MLaucliian Grecriock _ditto-Prompt Millar London ditto-Elizabeth Mary _Dohaldson _Newcastle _ditto,1823,"Leith Shipping. ARRIVED–Dec. 23, Commerce, Hudson, Yarmouth grain––24. Free Mason, Baxter, Lynn, barley–Juno, Ewing, Yarmouth do.–Thomas and Eleanor, Winn, Lynn, grain–Anson, Cringle, Wells, grain–Margaret, Spence, Stromness, goods–Eliza, Chadd, Lynn, grain–Sally, Cook, do. do.––25, Keatty, Nicolson, Green-ock, goods–Mary, Primrose, London, barley–Lillie, Taylor, Riga, goods–Comet, Marshall, London, goods–Delight, Smith, do. do.–Albion, Graham, Hamburgh, goods–Frankfort, Paton, do. do.–Hambro' Packet, Bisset, do. do.–Fly, Rodgers, Glasgow, goods–Janet, Buchannan, Dumbarton, glass–Admiral Duncan, McLean, Greenock, goods–Dunbar Packet, Lawson, Dunbar, grain––26. Queen Charlotte, Crabb, London, goods–Yare, Neal, Yarmouth, barley–Ocean, Johnstone, London, goods. CLEARED OUT,––24.–Norna, Cheyne, Lerwick, goods–Marquis of Huntly, Norrie, Aberdeen, ditto–Venus, Martin, Lon-don, ditto.––26, Ceres, McLauchlan, Greenock, ditto–Prompt, Millar, London, ditto–Elizabet, Mary Donaldson, Newcastle, ditto.",article,88.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482065405/,_This day _la published By _EDWARD WEST and CO Register Street St Andrew _s Square _beautifully _printed by _DAVIDSON London in _post _octavo uni form with the author s other works price 7 _fid in _extra board _SALMAGUNDI OR THE WHIM-WHAMS AND OPINIONS OF LAUNCELOT LANGSTAPF Esq and Others By the Author of _Knickerbocker _s History of New York Sketch Book _and Bracebridge HalL _Printed for T T EOO and _RODWEI L and MARTiif London R _GttirpiN and Co Glasgow and _EDWARD _WEST and _Co Edinburgh,1823,"This day is published, By EDWARD WEST and CO. Register Street, St Andrew's Square, beautifully printed by DAVIDSON, London, in post octavo, uni-form with the author's other works, price 7s. 6d. in extra boards, SALMAGUNDI, OR, THE WHIM-WHAMS AND OPINIONS OF LAUNCE-LOT LANGSTAFF, Esq. and Others. By the Author of Knickerbocker's History of New York, Sketch Book, and Bracebridge Hall. Printed for T. TEGG, and RODWELL and MARTIN, London; R. GRIFFIN and Co. Glasgow; and EDWARD WEST and Co. Edinburgh.",classified_ad,89.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482144437/,FIRST NIGHT OF DER atr KoiiaL present Evening WEDNESDAY December 1 2 will be produced the celebrated MUSICAL PLKFOlt-u ANCE in ThtecActs called DER FREISCHUTZ OR THE SlECTRK HUNTSMAN OF BOHEMIA Kili n---Mr Murray Christopher- -Mr Illiickay The IIcrmit -M Kuno Sir Ebsworth Agnes--Miss Noel From the Thcatrea-Royal nath arid English Opera House London being her rst appearance in this city Linn --Miss Johnstoli Being her first appearance in this Theatie After which tile Entertainment in one act culled IS HE JEALOUS THE SCOTSMAN EDINBURGH WEDNESDAY December 29 182 1,1824,"THE SCOTSMAN EDINBURGH, WEDNESDAY, December 29, 1824 FIRST NIGHT OF DER FRIESCHUTZ Theatre-Royal. THIS present Evening, WEDNESDAY, December 29, 1824 will be produced the celebrated MUSICAL PERFORM-ANCE, in Three Acts, called, DER FREISCHUTZ, OR THE SPECTRE HUNTSMAN OF BOHEMIA. Kilian..........Mr Murray. Christopher...............Mr Mackay. The Hermit........Mr Lynch. Kuno...................Mr Ebsworth. Agnes.........Miss Noel, From the Theatres-Royal, Bath, and English Opera House, London, being her first appearance in this city. Linn........Miss H. Johnston, Being her first appearance in this Theatre. After which, the Entertainment in one act, called IS HE JEALOUS?",display_ad,90.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482078098/,STEAM ENGINE To bo Sold by Private Bargain Independent STEAM ENGINE about Ten Horses rt Power cylinder 17 inches in diameter and 4 feet stroke It has been hut little used and is in the best condition Also FOUR SPINNING FRAMES of Thirty Spindles cadi for spinning yarns from 10 to 24 Ibs per spindle For particulars apply to George Moon Russell Mill Cupar Fife where they will be seen at work or to Messrs James Taylor Co or Messrs James and Charles Carinichicl Dundee Russell Mill 22 Drc 11 24,1824,"STEAM ENGINE. To be Sold by Private Bargain, AN Independent STEAM ENGINE, about Ten Horses Power; cylinder 171/2 inches in diameter, and 4 feet stroke. It has been but little used, and is in the best condition. Also, FOUR SPINNING FRAMES of Thirty Spindles each, for spinning yards from 10 to 24 lbs per spindle. For particulars apply to George Moon, Russell Mill, Cupar-Fife, where they will be seen at work; or to Messrs James Taylor & Co., or Messrs James and Charles Carmichael, Dundee. Russell Mill, 22d. Dec. 1824.",classified_ad,91.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482069531/,MR JOHN MlWNALD announces that on Tuesday 4 th January 1825 he will open PRIVATE CLASS tor Ladies for ELOCUTION and GEOGRAPHY from 11 ill 13 clock morning Terms-One Guinea Half per Quarter He will also on the same day open CLASS for Gentlemen or GRAMMAR and ELOCUTION from 7 till 8 oclock Terms-One Guinea per Quarter Dec 28 1824 121 PRINCES STREET,1824,"MR JOHN McDONALD RESPECTFULLY announces, that, on Tuesday 4th January 1825, he will open a PRIVATE CLASS for Ladies, for GRAMMAR, ELOCUTION, and GEOGRAPHY, from 11 till 12 o'clock morning. Terms–One Guinea and a Half per Quarter. He will also, on the same day, open a CLASS for Gentlemen, for GRAMMAR and ELOCUTION, from 7 till 8 o'clock even-ing. Terms–One Guinea per Quarter. Dec. 28, 1824, 121, PRINCE'S STREET.",classified_ad,92.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482069275/,WANTED IMMEDIATELY FOR THE EQUITABLE LOAN COMPANY OF SCOTLAND MANAGER of activity and general business habits practical knowledge of tlie trade of pawnbroking would be considered recommendation Security to tlie extent of 1000 will be required Likewise wanted an ASSISTANT who has had experience in pawnbroking The most ample testimonials of character will be required which must be lodged within 14 this date witli the Secretary Wm Duncan 31 Broughton Place Edinburgh postage paid Edinburgh Dec 23 1 24,1824,"WANTED IMMEDIATELY, FOR THE EQUITABLE LOAN COMPANY OF SCOTLAND. A MANAGER, of activity and general business habits; prac-tical knowledge of the trade of pawnbroking would be consi-dered a recommendation. Security to the extent of L1000 will be required. Likewise, wanted, an ASSISTANT, who has had experience in pawnbroking. The most ample testimonials of character will be required, which must be lodged within 14 days from this date, with the Secretary, Wm. Duncan, W.S. 31, Broughton Place, Edinburgh, postage paid. Edinburgh, Dec. 23, 1824.",classified_ad,93.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482061834/,For part of Scottish news sea third page TO CORnESPONDENTS observes that the establishment of Baking Society might prove good and useful speculation Another Correspondent-a Traveller who gives us his name ex presses hia with the rules of the Regulator Coach cod hia anxiety that other should adopt them,1824,"For part of Scottish news see third page. TO CORRESPONDENTS. A Correspondent observes, that the establishment of a Baking So-ciety might prove a good and useful speculation. Another Correspondent–a Traveller, who gives us his name, ex-presses his high satisfaction with the rules of the Regulator Coach and his anxiety that other coaches should adopt them.",other,94.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/482061672/,EnikBunc -Printed by CH LES for himself and the er Proprietors Published every WEDNESDAY wid at 257 High Credit Price cr AS 3 Kis Price per Yeiir paid Advance 2 is per Quarter ditto 14 Cd -AdvcrtiacmenlK and- orders for arc received JOHN Bookseller 1 2 Nelsiqii GlasgHW,1824,"EDINBURGH:–Printed by CHARLES MACLAREN, for himself and the other Proprietors. Published every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, at 257. High Street.–Credit Price per Year, £3, 3s.; per Quarter, 16s. Price per Year paid Advance, £2, 16s; per Quarter ditto, 14s. 6d.–Advertisements and orders for this paper are received by Mr JOHN McLEOD, Bookseller, 12. Nelson Street, Glasgow.",display-ad,95.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486440683/,INDIA By the Gungca which arrived at Liverpool qu Satur Sday Bombay papers to the Slst if Au ust have been continuing accounts from Ci lci itl later thun those received Tlic following arc extracts 1 CAI CUTtAi AlIg Letters from Proine to lie 23 ul are now before us Tlieyatenot their importance although they do not detail any thing in -regard- to expected We ari to observe from them that sickness to extent li 3 ii i-IH md lli it of lit are It is in Iniuri to bi from any ot the r- ar tl r-t ri -lr at to be in and it Liltli it li at Ava Amnapoora und wil great huw ol that if the Burmese to pursue the sy tcm have and if nothing but uch ace Ironic was Icurd no ige can bi trun of llie capital npr can tile army for any in the of prize lin ond trust that the learn some of Ititcru out of an increasing as tlie will prove but we shall look with no little anxiety to the liat may be expected roni Sir Archibald for tome time to coum rhc arrival of gun-boats had lieved the 4 inny from Ir itl to as to ilic supply uf ovi imi The Burmese at Cihcmbeunghenn is to lie tlie of defeated by General Moirisuu in Arracan An to penetrate from Prome to Arr can had tailed the roads being impassable for nnd bein witli difficulty to any kind uf passage whatever The rains hud not seriously set in at Prome and had bicn no torrents The river however is said to filled to considerable extent und was on the Aloonshucror ia said to be in high favour at the Court of Ava md ot deposition shown towards ahy of peace Of tlie death of the Bnndoolnh no doubt now at Prome,1825,"INDIA. By the Ganges, which arrived at Liverpool on Satur-day, Bombay papers to the 31st of August have been received, containing accounts from Calcutta a fortnight later than those previously received. The following are extracts:–CALCUTTA, Aug. 2. ""Letters from Prome to the 23d ult. are now before us. They are not without their importance, although they do not detail any thing specific in regard to ex-pected operations. We are sorry to observe from them, that sickness to a considerable extent has already ap-peared, and that apprehensions of its spreading are en-tertained. It is stated in these letters, that nothing is to be apprehended from any operations of the enemy be-tween Prome and Rangoon, and that the neareast point at which the enemy are said to be in any force, and that inconsiderable, is Shembeunghenn. Little doubt seems entertained as to the fact of their encroaching themselves strongly at Ava and Amnapoora; and it is added, with great apparent show of reason, that if the Burmese con-tinue to pursue the system they have hitherto followed, and if nothing but such a deserted place as Prom was found, no advantage of any importance can be expected from the occupation of the capital, nor can the army look or any valuables in the way of prize. We hope and trust that the fears which some of these letters hold out of an increasing sickness as the monsoon proceeds, will prove unfounded; but we shall certainly look with no little anxiety to the despatches that may be expected from Sir Archibald's head-quarters for some time to come. The arrival of the Arracan gun-boats had re-lieved the army from some apprehensions which they had begun to entertain as to the supply of provisions. The Burmese force at Shembeunghenn is said to be the relics of that defeated by General Morrison in Arracan. An attempt to penetrate from Prome to Arra-can had failed, the roads being impassable for cattle, and being with difficulty practicable to any kind of passage whatever. The rains had not seriously set in at Prome, and there had been no torrents. The river, however, is said to have filled to a considerable extent, and was on the increase. Moonshoeror is said to be in high favour at the Court of Ava, and not the slightest disposition shown towards any overtures of peace. Of the death of the Bundoolah no doubt is now entertain-ed at Prome.",article,96.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486440508/,REM 1 UM DRESSES RICH EMBROIDERED POCKET HANDKERCHIEFS LO CLOTH MUSLINS HOMAS IRELAND CO respectfully intimate that they have it now in their power to oner for sale the above beautifully made goods entirely of their own manufacture which gained the hill premiums at the last competition The elegance of the patterns and beauty of the work are such as are very seldom or ever to be met with and the Long Cloth Mudins are allowed to be of the most fabric and quality and very like the real India make Co got to hand farther supply of French Cambrics and Cambric Pocket Handkerclifcfs exceedingly moderate in price Linens and Cotton Shirtings nf the most approved textures Orders from tile country punctually attended to Manchester and Glasgow Wliolesale Mid Retail Muslin Wareliouse 37 South Bridge,1825,"PREMIUM MUSLIN DRESSES. LADIES RICH EMBROIDERED POCKET HANDKERCHIEFS, & LONG CLOTH MUSLINS. THOMAS IRELAND & CO. respectfully inti-mate, that they have it now in their power to offer for sale the above beautifully made goods (entirely of their own manufacture) which gained the full pre-iums at the last competition. The elegance of the patterns, and beauty of the work, are such as are very seldom or ever to be met with, and the Long Cloth Muslins are allowed to be of the most superior fabric and quality, and very like the real India make. T.I. & Co. have just got to hand a farther supply of French Cambrics, and Cambric Pocket Handkerchiefs, exceedingly moderate in price. Linens and Cotton Shirtings of the most approved textures. Orders fom the country punctually attended to. Manchester and Glasgow Wholesale and Retail Muslin Warehouse, 37, South Bridge.",classified_ad,97.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486428307/,PA KT 1 11 Tl 11 PAKTNl- ll wlio cnn advance Ty 5 and pve Ilia nd an business in lown arc with scarcely any post ilh real signatures only to 11 Weekly Chronicle Uffice 2 7 Sircet will be attended to OF ANATOMY AND NO SiUllOEONS Tr CULLEN begs lu intimate tli it iii compliance JL with llic of ft of Uentlcmen lie will deliver his LOL KSE of LEI TURES on the APPLICATIONS of the tlie DISEASES of the HKAllT and on Mondays iit four il iind on Salurdaya at 3 The next LcKdiro will be delivered on Monday January 2 at four I- 23 Ho we Street lire 21 lu 25 TO DEALERS IN FLINT GLASS llK -B It 0 II nnd AI-LOA CO MPANY take tills method of informing the TllADE that their Works for the manufacture of Flint are now in full operation Orden to Mr BIarthall Rianagcr for the Company at Alloa will he attended to Edinburgh Dec 17 ItlM,1825,"PARTNER WANTED. WANTED, a PARTNER who can advance L250, and give his personal attendance in an established business in town, where the profits are large, with scarcely any risk. Letters, (post paid) with real signatures only), addresed to A.B. Weekly Chronicle Office, 237, High Street, will be atttended to. tHEATRE OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY, No. 5, SURGEONS' SQUARE. DR CULLEN begs to intimate, that, in compliance with the wishes of a considerable number of Gentlemen, he will deliver his COURSE of LEC-TURES on the APPLICATIONS of the STETHO-SCOPE to the DISEASES of the HEART and LUNGS, on Mondays at four P.M., and on Saturdays at 2 P.M. The next LEcture, therefore, will be de-livered on Monday, January 2, at four P.M. 22, Howe Street, Dec. 28, 1825. TO DEALERS IN FLINT GLASS. THE DIRECTORS of the EDINBURGH, GLASGOW, and ALLOA GLASS COM-PANY take this method of informing the TRADE, that their Works for the manufacture of Flint Glass are now in full operation. Orders addressed to Mr Marshall, Manager for the Company at Alloa, will be punctually attended to. Edinburgh, Dec. 17, 1825.",classified_ad,98.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486395238/,Ii SAT Dec 31 11125 TO COllIlESIONnEN-TS Tlio letter iith aomc Jutticlary Triah hd oilier lie over till our in of want of room Wcmeint to make oinc 11 to tlic GIaigow Btogiltracy case ln to our friend of the yr Pres but have never bi kn able to in Jtime anil we one or which Wo to our next,1825,"EDINBURGH, SATURDAY, Dec. 31, 1825 TO CORRESPONDENTS. The letter of R.M.D., with some Justiciary Trials, and other matter, lie over till our next, in consequence of want of room. We meant to make some remarks as to the Glasgow Magis-tracy case, in answer to our friend of the Free Press, but have never been able to find time; and we have one or two books which we hope to notice in our next.",other,99.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486356555/,ULCnKi ON oi Tuc the Janii iry HlJll at 1 CO MilK will Cimrae ot lu iul ir LVjL l-UTLIlES ill the Clyde t- Hall and on Thursiliyi t- hour till the middle of Marcli adie invited 0 Ticket LI Is tach to be had of lt John Acderton junior 55 North Uriilge Strert AT 1 LY SYSTEal of by COMBE enlarged 1 vol Uvu Price 12 of 11 OGY by uo second edition 1 vol 12 ino Prio Ldinburgli JOHN jun LONGMAN mid Oo London and ULluand HE UEll 8 oy Ulaa ow-,1825,"LECTURES ON PHRENOLOGY On Tuesday the 10th January 1826, at 3 o'clock, P.M. MR COMBE will commence a Course of Popular LECTURES in the Clyde Street Hall; and Lecture on Thursdays and Tuesdays thereafter at the same hour till the middle of March. Ladies are invited to attend. Tickets L1, 1s. each, to be had of Mr John Ander-son, junior, 55, North Bridge Street.––LATELY PUBLISHED, A SYSTEM of PHRENOLOGY, by GEORGE COMBE, second edition. Greatly enlarged. 1 vol. 8vo. Price 12s. ELEMENTS of PHRENOLOGY, by do. second edition. 1 vol. 12mo. Price 4s. Edinburgh: JOHN ANDERSON, jun.; LONGMAN and Co. London; and REID and HENDERSON, Glasgow.",classified_ad,100.png
http://search.proquest.com/docview/486396437/,KDitB UGH Printed br CHA-RIiKS AlAC LAREN for and the other Proprietori Pyb -d every AY and SATcnnAY ii 35 UiahHu-eet -Credit Price per Year 3 3 6 quarter 166 Price per year paid-Advance 2 Iw per Quarter ditto 14 id -AilvcrtiseincnK ardour der 8 tor this paper received byM nosS Momjis 637 Argyle Street Qlasgow and ft HAB KEH 33 -a London,1825,"EDINBURGH:–Printed by CHARLES MAC-LAREN, for himself and other Proprietors. Pub-lished every WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY, at 257 High Street.–Credit Price per Year, £3, 3s.; per quarter, 16s. Price per Year, paid Advance, £3, 18s; per Quarter ditto, 14s. 6d.–Advertisements and or-ders for this paper are to be received by McLEOD & MORRIS Booksellers, 637. Argyle Street, Glasgow, and R. BAR-KER, 33. Fleet-street, London.",article,101.png
